richard burgess  also known as vegan gains  has told some lies about me  i don't really know if those would be  considered defamation  in a court of law  and i don't really care  i'm a canadian citizen richard is a  canadian citizen i have experience  with defamation cases that drag on a  court for many years i have no interest  in suing richard whatsoever and i'm not  even really interested in the  hypothetical thought exercise of how the  canadian system of law would  judge this case if i were to  make an issue of it but you know there's  also this thing called the code of the  streets  and for one grown man to say that  another grown man is a snitch  is kind of a big deal richard  for you to say  that i called the cops on you  for you to say  that i doxed you  that's kind of a big deal  where i'm from  and where i'm from is the same goddamn  place you're from downtown toronto  i don't think richard is lying  i think richard  is insane  i think richard doesn't know the  difference  between fact and fantasy anymore and i  am going to read you  his emails  the emails he sent to me  that prove  not only that this is a lie a fantasy  this is completely utterly untrue but  that it is actually  a fantasy he made up in his head  relatively recently it doesn't go back  five years it doesn't even really go  back three years  we're gonna be able to see the etiology  the step-by-step process whereby he  started concocting this fiction his mind  and  based on what he said himself on his own  youtube channel i would assume his wife  has also been involved even if it is  just that she's egging him on  that she's just encouraging him to get  deeper and deeper into the solution and  and richard  let me just ask you to use the golden  rule here for one [ __ ] second  how would you feel  if our positions were reversed  how would you feel  if someone else were saying about you on  the internet  that you had doxxed them  that you had called the cops on them and  got their door kicked down got their  house searched and got them involved  with legal charges and questions that  carried on for years  and you had the emails to prove  that this wasn't true that the person  saying that about you really they were  just kind of crazy and unhinged and not  in touch with your life how would you  feel richard if our positions were  reversed or if it was just  if it was someone else  saying it about you  you know  what is morality  morality  is not about the remit  of what can and can't be enforced  in a court of law  it's about  what matters  anyway  what's important to us anyway once we  get into arenas where no policeman and  no lawyer is is ever gonna tread  you know  um  i have to ask myself a lot  about  what is the moral thing to do  in my relationship with my own mother  with my own brothers and sisters  right  what's the right thing to do pulling  together you know a totality of  circumstances  going back  decades  and then here you are at any given point  you're only alive in one  moment in time  you know what's what's the right thing  to do what's moral there's never going  to be a court case you're not going to  sue your brother or your cousin or your  uncle or something you're not going to  take your own parents and and bring them  to court for being being jerks or  whatever you know and you've got to  examine your own feelings  and your own sense of justice and  injustice and your own defects of  character  your own pride and your own arrogance  you know what i mean  and i think you can neither apply a kind  of legal framework to these things nor  would i've just alluded to as the code  of the straits  you know  morality concerns exactly these  questions  of  what kind of personal integrity we're  going to demonstrate when nobody is  forcing us to right when there's no  compulsion  when there's no fear of of consequence  when i look at richard  you know  he's not extraordinary  i've known a lot of people who in the  same way just make up stories  in their own heads and after the passage  of time they start believing those  stories and it becomes very difficult to  talk them out of it  even when you can show them these days  you can show them emails from five years  ago or you can show the meals to 10  years ago or you can point out  no when that happened  i was in hong kong or i was in taiwan  it's not possible that i was there at  that time it's not possible that i did  this that time when you can point that  out i have had a lot of experience with  people who are not considered legally  insane  who are not going to be put into uh  lunatic asylum you know  where they are in this more informal  everyday use of the word where they are  garden variety crazy  you know  and  under other circumstances obviously  years have gone by with this i would  have no interest  in proving to you or proving to richard  or proving to the world  that richard burgess really is crazy  is aaron janus  a good leader  for the future of the vegan movement  is  freely the banana girl  a good leader for the future the vegan  movement  is durianrider  is james aspie  a good leader  for the future of the vegan movement  in each one of these cases  you're making a judgment  that at least in part  deals with the extent to which these  people are sane or insane  i have no hesitation in saying to you  today  richard burgess  is a terrible leader for the vegan  movement he's a terrible influence  on veganism today and i only  see his influence  becoming worse over time i've had to  talk with a lot of different people in  my life  friends relatives and you know i have  people in my family who aren't really my  blood relatives you know that is they  were cousin of a cousin or something  someone who's called your aunt but is  really just a friend of the family want  to talk about that network of kind of  long-term  friends family and acquaintances  a lot of situations where people have  talked to me and said like oh you know  this person is having mental health  problems now and oh they went and got  help you know  do you think they can get better do you  think they can improve and you know  every single time sorry and also you  know i've been married and divorced so  when you get married you kind of gain a  whole other family  in my case temporarily  marriage lasts forever apparently so you  gain other relatives through the  marriage and stuff and every time  there's been one of these situations  what i've said to caution people is you  know  yeah  some people  get better  but let me tell you something  a lot of people  a lot  they get worse and worse and worse  until the day that they die so a distant  you know so-called relative in this  sense i don't think i have any dna in  common with this guy but i was recently  reminded of him um not worked on the  story why  and um  so he was someone who knew my father and  he's he's very very elderly now and you  know i remember seeing him at family  functions when i was a little kid  and i can remember then when i was i  guess a teenager  people started saying that he had gone  insane and you know i've always been  cursed with this this kind of sharp  memory i was like no no no  i can remember back when i was six years  old he was already insane  i know you guys may perceive it as if  it's senility or as if it's just now and  then you know some years after that i'm  in my 20s  and people are telling me he's he's gone  further insane and then when i'm in my  30s i hear he's actually got in trouble  with the police and there's talk about  putting him into some kind of home you  know  whether this will be a voluntary old  folks home or some kind of involuntary  psychiatric care and so on you know and  i just mentioned that was somebody i  knew from childhood and it was like well  i'm not really sure if it's the case  that he went insane as opposed to he was  insane all along and you guys were  making excuses for him and you know  and yeah i mean someone else i knew this  kind of connection not a blood relation  as it happens i remember um  look  it's hard to it's hard to anonymize  these stories but yeah i've known a lot  of examples of people where their  friends and family around them were  saying oh they can recover they can get  better they can get back on the straight  and narrow you know  and yeah they can  but will they  and what are the odds that instead  they're going to get worse and worse  there are a whole lot of people who you  know with the best of intentions people  wanted richard to win people wanted  richard to recover people perceived the  redeeming qualities he had the positive  things about the man and they wanted  those to become the primary  characteristics in his life and instead  what they've seen in the passage of  years are his negative characteristics  his malignant characteristics however  you want to put it  we've seen those blossom and take over  his character and that echo that shadow  of some aspect of him that was in some  way good we've seen that all but  disappear right and we've seen him  struggle with his so-called mental  health struggle with his sanity struggle  with different kinds of treatment and  therapy including you know cures that he  devised for himself cures he was briefly  convinced had worked and he was a new  man he was a changed man and so on and  then we've seen him lose faith in each  one of those  miracle cures we've seen this come and  go so guys you know  let me just ask you  where do you think  henia mania is going to be five years  from now  where do you think  james aspie  is gonna be  five years from now  freely the banana girl  dorian ryder  aaron janice  where is she going to be  what you gonna do in five years now i've  got to tell you something  my only interest  in any of these people and their lives  was their potential to do something  really positive for the vegan movement  in the next five years that's why i  cared about them that's why i talked  about them that's also why i criticize  them they're not if vegan gains is just  a video game review channel you know if  he just plays video games and uh  talks about his expensive new motorcycle  motorcycle and bodybuilding i'm not  interested i have zero interest in  expensive motorcycles zero interest in  him  playing video games on camera right zero  interest in the bodybuilding  no offense if i want advice on  bodybuilding  i'm not gonna listen  are you kidding me you know right there  was some level of interest for me in  these people because of their potential  to change the world have a positive  effect lead the vegan movement right  what's your expectation for any one of  these people in the next five years and  now let's take a step back and ask what  do we think the the future of the vegan  movement is  in the next five years it's not aaron  janus it's not vegan gains it's not gary  yourofsky it's not gary francione  okay guess what  each and every one of these idols who  were lifted up and put on a pedestal  each and every one of them  proved to be a false god  and in terms of this non-scientific  use of the word crazy  each and every one of them prove to be  crazy  in a different way  i think james aspie is a very different  guy from vegan gains totally dif like  you know what i mean i'm not saying they  have a whole lot in common the sense in  which you'd call james assby crazy is  very different from what you say about  richard  um  yeah so i mean shout out to everyone in  the audience  um  [Music]  yeah so someone was asking are you  talking about a second cousin once  removed  [Laughter]  my father got a lot of people pregnant  okay  [Laughter]  so i mean i some one of my brothers was  given up for adoption and like you know  my uh my family tree is more like a bush  you know  but also some of those people there's  some people my family who were just not  related to there's one woman who was a  friend of my mother during university  she's like an aunt to me she's more of a  not to me than my actual aunts but  there's no no blood relation so that's  that's the way family is sometimes uh  but anyway joel asks quote  where are we going to be in the next 10  years  i i just i just don't understand why i'm  the only person out here asking that  question you know i don't understand  this  reckless commitment to living every day  as if it's your last  which it seems to be  you know the default mode of life for my  generation is partying like it's 1999  you know  nobody is interested in having a  five-year plan in a 10-year plan so on  and so forth and i just tell you you  know i don't  it's it's unimaginable to me and you got  to have it demonstrated to me again  again again  and you know what does richard have  answered that question  well you know what was richard's  five-year plan five years ago five years  ago where do you want to be today  and i asked him that question when i had  the interview with him  oh and then what what is he going to say  about his own situation today and where  he's going to be five years from now  start now okay guys i'm going to read  you these i'm going to read you these  emails uh when this video is done  i'll take the email and i'll put it on  my blog and i'll provide a link in the  description i don't think that's  interesting anyone but if for some  reason you want to read verbatim exactly  what god said here  this the most important thing to note  with these emails is the date  so this is  february 1st  2019  all right so if you think about when the  police kicked down his door when his gun  trouble started when he's as in his own  words he had these problems with the  court and getting an evaluation by a  psychiatrist ordered by the court he  dealt with this complex situation and  the question of whether or not he'd have  the legal right to bear arms right  that's what i'm saying it's it's gun  related right think about how many years  this had already been going on for  before richard sent me this email  february  of 2019  and  the story he's telling today the lie the  defamation  he's directing towards me today it  obviously hadn't been cooked up in his  head yet or he's at the first stages of  blaming me for his problems these  mistakes in his life when this email was  sent  right  okay quote so i'm now reading richard  writing to me the the email is titled  take down your slander videos okay  quote  you've made several videos making up  lies about me and you should know some  of these lies could get me into serious  trouble with the law  you claimed on camera at six minutes and  15 seconds and your video titled vegan  gains is not cured he's not a new man  that i own real firearms okay close  quote now  i pro i shouldn't have to tell you he's  lying and misrepresenting things here i  mean it's this is what richard is like  you know and you'll get to hear my reply  send the emails that that ensure for me  the emails that ensue  um  if you've watched the video i uploaded  immediately prior to this one you can  see i just have him narrating over the  footage of him taking weapons out of  bags and parcels you know and now i say  weapons  for a reason yes as you're gonna hear  that includes uh air guns includes these  kinds of recreational toy guns but as is  specified here it also includes real  weapons swords  uh  knives  etc you know there are other kinds of  weapons here so as is the case in the  video immediately prior to this you can  see in passing i refer to this as a  video in which he was taking weapons  out of a bag it's not the case that i'm  i'm not making the specific types of  claims that he's uh he's uh alleging i  make here but anyway so you can see that  in the video immediately before this  what i said and the way they say it you  can also see how well-intentioned it was  i mean you can see i'm raising questions  of like look man where is your career  going to be five years from now whether  you want to have a career as a  bodybuilding expert a career as a  nutritional science expert as a leader  in the vegan movement or if you want to  have a career as a stand-up comedian or  you want to have a career as a filmmaker  there was a time i don't know if you  remember this there was a time when he  said he wanted to be an action star he  wanted to be like a kung fu  lead actor in movies there was a time  when he said he wanted to go into  politics and get elected and be prime  minister of canada but my point was from  any of these perspectives this video of  him taking out weapons from her back and  what he was saying  during that video and indeed all the  videos where he's talking about this  legal situation  and him getting a psychiatric evaluation  for whether or not he can legally own a  gun in canada whether he's seen enough i  suppose to own a gun well you know what  are the what are the implications i was  asking that and saying that in a in a  well-intentioned way in that video and  raising questions all right i continue  here quoting uh richard's email all  right  um quote you also claim that you came to  this conclusion because you claim that i  have never said i do not own real guns  and because you claim i have an interest  in firearms and plan to own firearms in  the future close quote at this time  there were numerous videos and live  streams on youtube in which he talked  about the specific guns he wanted to buy  and own i'd seen them and heard them  many of you will have seen them  so the way he's wording this is very  dishonest and manipulative like as as if  i've made it up out of thin air that he  has an interest in owning guns he'd  stated it himself and he'd stated it  also sometimes when talking about this  legal situation was in that once he got  the legal right to own guns in canada  again that he would on guns and we don't  know i mean correct me if i'm wrong  today  does anyone know you can tell me the  comments do you know whether or not  richard on guns gun sticks i've heard  him talk about gun ownership a lot  but anyway you'll hear what he said at  this time in 2019 all right  okay so at this time he says quote i do  not own real firearms isil and currently  i am not legally able to own firearms  due to my probation  and you accusing me of owning firearms  could have serious little consequences  for me  if you do not take down this video i  will do everything i can to take this  video down and take down any other  videos you've made accusing me of  criminal activity  i will first try to get these videos  taken down through youtube's own  policies against harassment and bullying  i have already talked to my  multi-channel network about this issue  and if that does not work then i will  pursue legal action against you to be  absolutely clear i want you to take down  any videos you've made accusing me of  any criminal activity close quote and  just  let's just clarify a couple of things  here one so at this time  february of 2019 if he believed  i was the person who would phone the  cops  why isn't that in this email  obviously that's a delusion that's a  fantasy that's a hallucination he made  up at some later point right like if  that he would be angry about that here  in february of 2019 richard  for some reason the thought hadn't even  entered your mind that it was my fault  that you had this legal problem with the  cops in the first place so richard this  is evidence  that you and your wife concocted this  myth about me this lie about me later  than february 2019. there is no  complaint here  that i doxed him  isn't that interesting  if he blamed me for that if he had any  reason she had any evidence to think  that i had doxed him and his specific  claim is that i doxed him at some point  that caused this legal problem for him  it would have to be before this it would  have been years before this right it  couldn't be at this moment and  presumably he would be furious about it  right now he would be complaining that i  had dogs them etc so those are ideas he  invented  more recently than this and although  february 2019 is a long time ago  his legal process with going and  speaking to a psychiatrist and getting  this evaluation and dealing with the  canadian court system i believe it had  been going on for about two years  already at this point  again you guys can compare the exact  dates  um  the exact time stamps in the video the  first time i learned about this legal  situation his legal troubles uh this  problem with the police was when he told  me in the interview i conducted with him  and that that interview was still on my  channel so you can that's when he first  told me and to my knowledge  he had never said that on the internet  before it's possible he did somewhere  that he'd already talked about that i  hadn't seen but i was shocked i hadn't  heard anything about that legal problem  at that point so to my knowledge it  wasn't widely known yet and he intended  to go on to talk about the future and he  did he later did talk about it openly  and publicly this uh this legal problem  okay so  anyway um  we have we have someone um  commenting  wolf pack says quote evidence doesn't  matter to people that have a big ego  with themselves so  good comment i understand what you're  saying but there are two dimensions of  this one  richard's own attitude  and then to the attitude of the audience  and the scariest thing of all is the  extent to which people in the audience  don't care about the truth people in the  audience don't care what happens that  really scares me and i've had to deal  with that for so many years i've had to  deal with that with dorian ryder if i  deal with that with really small  gossip channels making up things but  even like reddit groups like people who  don't even come on camera with their own  face don't take any risk that people  will just make things up on the internet  that normally can be factually verified  or challenging so you remember this  thing with um  foot soldier claiming that i've never  studied chinese and never lived in china  it's like dude there's so much evidence  in the internet that i've lived in china  and studying like just google my name  like how could i have faked this stuff  there's so much evidence people made up  all these crazy theories and really  believed them you know and then sooner  or later they get back to me like  someone like footsoldier talks to me  directly and people will say like foot  soldier said to me like oh well everyone  says this  what do you mean everyone like did five  people in your discord group say this i  don't care if five people in your  discord group said it's flagrantly  untrue it's obviously untrue  you see a lot of that on the internet  and you know i think someone with as  loose a grip on reality as richard can  also be taken in by these same attitudes  you know richard will influence his  audience but the audience will also  influence richard right he's someone who  can be influenced that way i can't be  you guys can't start a bunch of lies  that are going to drag me in and pull me  along with you right i'm not susceptible  that way you can't influence me but  certainly someone like like richard  cooper at some point he started  believing these crazy lies made up about  me and not surprisingly these lies are  blaming me for his problems as opposed  to taking responsibility for himself and  let's just let's just note yeah  i i feel you someone else saying they  hate it when  people appeal to the notion of everyone  says or people are saying yeah it's like  you know i don't  when you say everyone says blank about  my sex life  are these people  are these people who have slept with me  that's just ridiculous  look let's just clarify again richard  has been honest  in talking about his mental health  problems and i've said for years that i  gave him credit for that like there are  a lot of things i can't give him credit  for but i've said look i think it's  really healthy to have people come on  the internet and talk about what it's  like to have hallucinations i've heard  him talk about  hallucinations he said paranoid  hallucinations etc that's going to come  up in this email correspondence where i  raise with him i have a really good  question for you if you knew someone  who's admitted to the type of paranoid  hallucinations vegan gains hats do you  believe that person should have the  right to bear arms do you believe that  person should be carrying a handgun  just based on the symptoms richard has  admitted to and discussed in public  richard has admitted  really extreme symptoms of mental health  problems extreme insanity to be blunt in  plain english right but like richard you  have to have some self-awareness if you  know that about yourself  then you must realize the extent to  which you are capable of lying about me  and about how our so-called friendship  ended and how we became  so-called enemies like you must realize  that when you don't have detachment and  clarity  you can get pretty deep into lying to  your audience and pretty deep and  aligned yourself  and i just want to say again you know  obviously i have no  you know the canadian legal system don't  even get me started right but like  you know dude just think about this in  terms of the rules of the streets  like i i i  [Music]  where i come from i grew up in downtown  toronto i look look for real i don't  know i don't know richard probably i had  more black people going to my high  school than you had going to yours like  the percentage of african canadians in  toronto is not that great but like you  know i grew up on all races of man i  grew up around italians greeks chileans  uh actually  all except hispanics there really  weren't that many mexicans where i grew  up very few mexicans to be honest  anyway you know melissa's seen my  neighborhood but i mean jamaican  immigrants  korean immigrants chinese immigrants uh  no japanese where i grew up but anyway  you know almost every uh  of course within europe russians  ukrainians you know  we uh all kinds of racism but i've got  to tell you something in that part of  downtown toronto you know where those  cultures came together sure there were  real minimum standards of morality that  got enforced across those cultural lines  and yes saying that someone phoned the  cops on you is a big deal saying that  someone's snitching you saying that  someone falsely phoned the cops that  someone thought like lied to the cops  about you  is a big deal  all right and and i can say where i'm  from i'm from the same block you're from  richard like as far as i know we're both  from downtown toronto i don't think we  grew up in such different circumstances  and seeing that i doxed you  anywhere on youtube anywhere on the  internet i mean i don't care if you're  from sweet valley high  okay doxing someone's a big deal like  the morality of doxing someone everyone  understands i don't care if you're  japanese any everyone understands  doxxing is evil richard i've never toxed  you and i don't even i don't even know  anything to like  just be real i don't know where he lives  i don't know anything about it because i  don't care i've never googled it like  for real i don't know anything about  this guy i could use nothing  so because i've i've never even wondered  about it i'm i don't know i'm not  curious about people that way i'm just  going to be honest like i'm curious  about people politically philosophically  morally like i want to know what kind of  person you are politically that's what  i'm  you know what i mean like that's what  i'm curious about but you know come on  man you know  the like the location of his apartment  or wherever he goes to work i don't want  no any of that i don't want to know that  about anyone i don't know i pushed you  so that kind of stuff i i don't have  anything to dox anybody with  all right um  yeah and look i so said really briefly  in my earlier video the video i made  immediately prior to this one i i asked  the question hypothetically okay  my critique of richard of vegan gains  why did it become harsher and harsher  because the very thing i was criticizing  became worse and worse his actual  youtube content became worse than a few  people you know uh reporting anyway look  guys by the way i remember there was a  really touching moment in a rap song by  little b i used to shout out little b on  my channel but anyway uh his recent  recordings have declined in quality but  you know little b had a rap song where  he just stopped in the middle of this  rap song he wasn't really rapping or  singing he just stopped and he said to  the audience he said look i want you to  know that that bullying is serious if  you are being bullied in school talk to  your teacher talk to the professors talk  to the cops  it was just the realist moment in a  [ __ ] rap song where it's like look  there's all this boasting about being a  tough guy and not going to the cops and  solving your problems and you just  stopped and said look like if you are  dealing with this  don't don't be a tough guy like you know  because being bullied in school is  horrible and it really matters and so  look i'm not saying nobody should go to  the cops there are all kinds of good  reasons to go to the cops you know what  i'm saying  um  so however yes for richard to falsely  claim that i went to the cops and so on  and then he seems to believe it he  doesn't seem to think he's lying he's  just crazy to touch the reality that's  you know it's pretty creative okay so we  got we got some questions from the  audience uh here i'll stop answering  everything cool babe do you wanna okay  sir melissa's melissa's off camera good  good  if you want if you wanna sit in the  floor with me if you wanna no okay  all right thanks thanks for the support  from charlie zander i'm gonna answer  these these couple questions get back to  reading this email  i hope i remember where i'm at  i think i do  um  charlie asks quote would you be willing  to do a live chat with vegan gains uh to  discuss this topic and is there any hope  that you could both reconcile  um  so you asked the same question twice  oh look i feel like i already addressed  this i don't know if you guys remember  the video i did  where i commented that vegan gains had  challenged me to a debate and then his  wife didn't want me to have the debate  with him so that's  almost a year ago now or something  um i can give you the  link to that hold on i'll answer it  substantively too  the last time we went through this this  is eight months ago yeah i remember it  being the better part of a year ago  here's the video it's very short video  um  the last time this happened about eight  months ago  my response was to say look i'm only  interested in talking to richard if you  would actually read a book do you want  to grab the book for me babe do you know  where it is oh well great  melissa memorized and  i just said look like richard i'm not  going to this debate or discuss this  with you  if you don't know what you're talking  about because from my perspective he  speaks out of complete ignorance and  also with a lot of malice and  meaningless aggression i was like this  is a really important book that really  addresses the issues this is you know so  if you actually want to read this book  and i offered i haven't read the book  melissa has you know i said i can prove  that i'm putting in the hours i'll  livestream myself reading the book i  don't even know if that's gonna take me  10 hours 20 hours probably quite a few  hours to read this book i can put in the  time to read the book also so it's not  just putting the imposition on him i can  livestream myself reading the book and  then we could discuss it i made that  offer eight months ago i honestly i  wouldn't make that offer today  but my point is this like  you know what youtube has become  is this really perverse process of the  blind leading the blind  and i you know  just you know  what's what's the point of someone who  is as ignorant as vegan gains discussing  anything like i don't even think he can  debate bodybuilding i'm sorry but  richard hasn't coached a bodybuilding  champion or something richard never  studied nutrition and dietetics richard  never got a university degree in  kinesiology richard has never been a gym  coach for even a little league team let  alone an award-winning team you can go  on youtube and you can get diet and  exercise advice from olympic athletes  and from coaches who have helped train a  dozen successful olympic athletes and  worked with teams you can also watch  youtube videos from coaches who  specialized in working with  severely obese people you know what i  mean people who are just trying to get a  normal life back just trying to lose  weight you know it's a different kind of  coaching different experience whether  they have background in nutrition or  science but like you know the notion  that richard is in this position to pass  judgment  on  you know  every province of science politics and  history it's it's just ludicrous  and you know i'd just be real with you i  think that  so someone in the audience says quote  richard has a degree in tendonitis  he has a degree in injuring himself  that's right you know  um  anyway so look you know that that's the  answer one part of your question i have  to say that this question also just  inspires me to reflect for a moment  um  you know when i first saw richard's  content so what is it now like eight  years ago guys  i never thought it would get this bad  like it never occurred to me that the  young  hopeful well-intentioned naive kid from  toronto that he was  would stink into this dark  malevolent self-pitying  pattern he's been in for so many years  you know it absolutely never occurred to  me that this was the direction his  channel would take and that this is the  man he would become  you know  and um  [Music]  you know look guys i mean  have i ever done a live stream talking  about the politics of jamaica  you know i mean there are elections and  political what we're just hearing  political news from tunisia  am i going to do a live stream talking  about the politics of tunisia it's  interesting to me i've heard about it on  the news open you know i'm aware of the  limits of my expertise i can't lecture  on old topics i can't do a live q a on  all topics you know what i mean so there  are a lot of elements there are a lot of  different ways in which richard is a  really bad influence um on veganism as a  movement and just on the world in  general through youtube but i think one  of the most negative elements of his  influence at all is just just the idea  that he's in a position to sit back and  judge that he sits there like a king  passing judgment and all these things he  has never read one article about he has  never read one book about let alone you  know three or four books  with contrasting perspectives  um and what generation x gamer says  quote he hasn't been good for a while i  enjoyed his skits close quote well you  know exactly i mean like you know  eight years ago that's what we're  talking about  maybe look at this guy and say well yeah  sure he's kind of a no-nothing bum  but he can do comedy like maybe he can  go further in that direction or you know  maybe you think he has some talent in  filmmaking and he can go that direction  you know you know what i'm saying you  could see still something positive for  do and years ago more than five years  ago he seemed like he had a really  sincere interest in helping animals  animal welfare or however you want to  put it you know what i'm saying he  seemed to care about the suffering of  animals i think it's been a long time  since he showed any any sincere care or  interest that way so look sorry there is  actually more i can say about that  because i feel that's i mean even if  it's shallow  that's really an area of critique that  applies to many different channels in  many different ways and i think it  raises questions we all have to ask  ourselves about our own lives  you know most of you guys have a nine to  five job where you do the same thing  every day  now i'll say this this is definitely  part of my analysis of my own father  also  a lot of people have a nine to five job  where they're humiliated and denigrated  again and again and again every day so  like while they're at work their ego is  getting ground down like all day and  then maybe when they leave work they  feel they need to kind of recover their  their ego their sense of self-esteem  their sense of worth you know but some  people  have a job where they are being  flattered  where their ego is getting pumped up  all day nine to five again again and  again you know this was my this is part  of my father's problem right like i  wonder to what extent my father could  have been a better person  if he had been a construction worker if  he had been hauling sacks of cement  around a loading dock you know what i  mean at the  at a dockyard or something he just had a  kind of normal job that kept him in  check  and you know anyway i just say that that  question  and who these people are whether it's  vegan gains or someone else on camera or  off camera then again  blind leading the blind the consequences  politically and so on  and look guys sorry  it's quite intentional in everything  i've just said to you there was no  mention of formal education like i  didn't mention having a phd or a  master's degree because trust me there  are people with a phd who are just as  ignorant as vegan kids there are people  with a master's degree there are people  with years of higher education who have  nothing more to offer than vegans and  who are just as ignorant and just as  self-righteous and just as as malevolent  but sure as skeptical as i was about  richard shall we say eight years ago  i never imagined  it would be this bad as skeptical as it  was about henia mania i never thought  bonnie rebecca who the hell thought it  would turn out this way with these  people who thought it would be this bad  james aspy  a nice australian boy who you know took  a vow of silence for a year like you  know you could think the best about  these people whether it's five years ago  or eight years ago whatever well  you know time has told you know  um  we've seen just what terrible people  each each these examples is in a  different way  all right uh so answering your questions  i'm gonna return to reading these these  emails  so a great question from charlie again  charlie asks quote do you believe there  is anyone who can be a leader in the  vegan movement what hope do you have for  veganism in the future  are you aware that i've written a book  on this topic  and what was the book published about  one month ago now  right  melissa says two months  so look this book is listed on amazon in  each country  so charlie  assume you're still here  uh you can click on this link i mean i  can give you the link to amazon.com but  you know if you're in france it's  amazon.fr if you're in japan  it's amazon.jp but this is available  everywhere  and it's the minimum possible price so  on do you want to grab me this book babe  i think it's back there it looks great  and buying it on paper is only four  dollars  so yeah i think it's right up top oh  maybe i'm wrong yeah yeah up there no  all right it doesn't matter forget about  it  it's okay  they can click on the link and see what  the book looks like  oh let's go  great question uh generation x gamer  asks if i've got this as an audiobook no  i have so many hours of podcasts and  youtube videos already from over the  years  see the resemblance no  i haven't i haven't aged a day  um anyway so look it's not you can see  it's not a real long book  um  but that's a lot of entertainment it's  one dollar as a kindle document and it's  four dollars on paper so for four  dollars and this is it's a miracle that  includes delivery to your door from  amazon it's really an amazing sorry just  credit to amazon i'm not giving credit  to myself but you get this it's it is a  real book on paper it's  just as good quality as a book from any  other publisher that amazon produces and  they deliver it to you over four dollars  but anyway so to answer your question  though a little bit further charlie  that is answering the question of what  you can do with your life  not just the abstract question in  general of some idealized person what  they could do um  leading the vegan movement so yeah it's  you know sure i mean  there's a  there's a chalkboard question  in theory what could someone do what  what should someone do and then there's  what can we do what are we going to do  and how is that going to fit into a  meaningful life because you know i  remember this was said about a certain  scholar of buddhism  i could tell you the whole story of this  guy he was an early  path-breaking scholar of buddhism who he  walked from hungary to tibet over hand  among his his  accomplishments um it was said of him in  this basically this obituary of him i  read it said  he was the epitome of a man  who chose not to live but to know  like the difference between living and  knowing is a choice he chose not to live  but to know and  you know that's not the choice i want  anyone to make  i want you to live and know right i want  you to uh  you know i don't want you to choose  between life  and  the revolution  you're i want you to live the revolution  i want your life to be the revolution  and for you to be a part of the  revolution while living a meaningful  life while living a good life i don't  want you to live in a cave  you know  there are a lot of  ideological movements that are pretty  much based on you living in a cave  including what freely is doing now it's  insane freely wants you to live in the  middle of the jungle and grow your own  fruits and vegetables  it's not literally a cave but it's it's  pretty close it's more restrictive than  becoming a buddhist monk so  oh okay totally reasonable question i'll  just give a short answer and i'm going  to continue reading this this email  corresponds to me and richard um  so william asks do these other people  like freely the banana girl richard etc  do they hold themselves up as leaders  because they have more youtube  subscribers i'm going to be honest with  you i think the answer is different in  every case  i would not generalize about these these  people  and  the answer very often makes no sense at  all  um  [Music]  you know i would point out  before freely and durianrider started  their festival in chiang mai there was a  different couple that already had a  vegan fruit festival in chiang mai do  you remember their names babe the  overlord connor and brittany  connor brittany now connor brittany got  famous on youtube connor and brittany  have made a lot of money out of their  social media platform and  to my experience they're fairly honest  about that they talk about how much  money  and they have slept with a lot of people  which they talk about they talk about  their sex life right so they've had fame  sex money right  vegan fruit festival in chiang mai  talent but they never took the fateful  step  freely and durianrider took and that's  why no offense most you've never heard  of them or those of you who had heard of  them right now are like oh yeah i  remember those guys  so like that's the point i know it may  sound silly but  freely and during writer could have had  a life much more like conor and brittany  right i could say it about vegan gains  too you could say to another school so  [Music]  yeah that's  it's not something generalized about  science  woo sorry another great question no i'm  never gonna guys i appreciate it most of  the time i have no questions worth  answering here and i'm getting a lot of  great questions today so charlie asks  again  quote can you give your opinion about  gary yourofsky and his flaws why did he  quit being a leader of the speaker  movement now i would assume i have a  playlist of videos at this point on gary  yourofsky i have made several in-depth  at length discussions about gary  vayorovsky including one that harshly  condemned him when he quote unquote  retired so i mean now yourofsky has a  name that's easy to google  so yeah here we go here's here's a video  with a self-explanatory title gary  yourofsky colon bitter burnt  bitter burnt out loser blames passivist  vegans for his own decision to quit  so that managed to get 8 400 views  um oh yeah so here we go oh that's  that's the real one i'm thinking of  quote martyrs make lousy leaders beyond  gary yourofsky yeah  attacking this notion of martyrdom and  so on so that's the link to that  playlist um yes i have talked about gary  yourof's game what's wrong with his  approach at length and in depth  um  but look at sorry with all these people  including vegan gains himself  let's just say  stupidity is real  and look sorry whether  two big concepts in our culture what is  stupidity  what is insanity  right like  mental health what does this really mean  let's move past this right there were a  lot of people  who are stupid  who could be  intelligent  right  and there are some people who are stupid  and they really have no no choice now  you know sir i got i don't know if  you're still in the audience here one of  the very few examples of a youtuber who  talks about his own low level of  education and regrets in life is is  generation x gamer here so i've heard  generation x gamer say that you know  when he looks back at his life he he  said in a recent video he wonders if he  had  an education  more like i do if he had experience  traveling the world and things more like  i do how his life would be different if  he'd lived a life more like mine  totally good question  for real i asked myself if i'd had a  life more like yours too i don't mean  video games but if i'd stayed in toronto  and worked a blue-collar job and you  know  one of the jobs i applied for this was  right when i was packing up to leave  toronto and moved to asia or when i  thought i was  long story  but you know i remember i applied for  and got a job on a wrecking crew  so this is a demolition crew uh but  specifically when they like blow up a  building and then there are the pieces  of burnt metal and well not even  bent metal metal and bricks and you got  a haul away you you know the demolition  and clearing away phase of the  construction industry and  even that job in toronto relied on  nepotism to get the job not literally  but you know a friend of a friend  recommends you and you make a phone call  um even that was but it was like you  know okay  yeah i'm six foot three i do 200  push-ups at that time i did chin-ups too  i don't do chin-ups at the moment  like you know the the interview for that  job was like you do push-ups you do  chin-ups you're over six foot tall okay  we're interested can you wake up at 5 30  in the morning it was something like  that got to get up real early go work on  this television and my father didn't let  me take the job my father stopped it my  father was like no i'm not letting you  work in construction  anyway sorry long story short there uh  short story long  um  you know my point is this there are some  people who are stupid  and they don't have to be stupid they  chose to live the life they're living  they're making that choice every day  again and again and again for example  they are choosing to play video games  for six hours a day every day or  whatever it is  they're choosing to do drugs every day  they're choosing to drink alcohol every  day whatever the choice is they're even  some of my own brothers you know i've  they're guys who have basically the same  genetics i have but they chose to chase  women drink alcohol do drugs  live a dissolute life and they internet  me  but you know there are also people who  don't have a choice and if you've really  known people for years you know  there are some people who are crazy and  it's really compulsive it's really  involuntary and they didn't have a  choice to be saying it's not that they  squandered their sanity with drugs and  alcohol or something you know they they  were really just dealt an unfortunate  deck of cards whether we call that  insanity or mental disability or a  combination of two or mental retardation  this term that nobody wants to use  anymore but still really matters  medically um  you know  no it's it's not it's not always a  choice but sure  you know  this is my answer question about uh  you know  gary yourofsky and vegan gains  you know guys stupidity is real  the fundamental problem with gary  yourofsky is stupidity and he has that  in common with vegan gains and in many  ways i think gary yourofsky and richard  they're stupid in some of the same ways  like they cope with their stupidity with  extreme rage  extreme statements about you know  wanting to do violent things to people  like you can see a lot of things they  they have in common however  you know gary yourofsky was a  schoolteacher you know gary yourofsky  held down a job as a uh  supply teacher in the detroit public  school system i don't think richard  could do that  ryofsky has  accomplished some things in his life  positively that i don't think richard  ever could do but sure you know  fundamentally the problem is stupidity  then we have a question are we talking  about you know voluntary stupidity the  stupidity you choose or a kind of in  involuntary compulsory even genetic  predestined  stupidity  insanity etc and  bottom line i don't know and i don't  care like i'm not really interested in  holding up your your soul in a set of  scales and judging you know karyorovsky  or richard or anyone else what i what i  am interested in is what  i am going to do with the next five  years of my life  and there was a time  when i was coming back to canada  from taiwan oh sorry i'm a misremember  now i was coming back to canada from  yunnan china right  not even tabloid i was coming back from  yunnan china to canada  and i thought what i was going to do in  the next five years involved vegan gains  i thought vegan gains and aaron janus i  had like a list of people i bought gifts  for because i was going to meet them  face to face we're going to be involved  in vegan activism  jokes on me  not a single one of those people on that  list ever met me i don't think i don't  think of the people i bought gifts for i  don't think a single one of them ever  got the gift you know so every single  one faked out on me or let me down or it  didn't happen there wasn't a single  person to collab with me okay that was  season one on about seattle season two  i'm playing a different game by  different rules people but yeah  ultimately i'm interested in what's  gonna happen next five years and i want  every single one of you to be interested  in that too and guys it's no joke the  polarized caps are melting it's no joke  the parts per million of carbon dioxide  in the atmosphere is increasing year  after year after year coronavirus didn't  slow it down appreciably you can see on  the charts  by the way it is measurable it did slow  it down  infinitesimally it gets measured what a  difference it made the reduction in  airplane flights and so on during the  chronic hours period but you know guess  what the rising rate of carbon dioxide  the atmosphere the acidification of the  oceans the impending you know ecological  you know disaster at least for animals  on planet earth if not human beings we  are facing a very finite timeline and  even more finite than that is you are  going to die and long before you die you  might lose the physical strength  vitality and mobility let's do these  things i say that all the time sorry  just to make it about me for a second  sorry  i very rarely speak about myself put on  this occasion and melissa i don't know  how you relate to this but like  when i was finishing university my baa  my first ba my honors ba university i  said openly to the professors like  look if i don't go to cambodia now  if i don't risk  stepping on a landmine in laos and  cambodia now when is it going to be  when i'm 45 when i'm 55  like you don't know sorry and you know  you don't know what health problems you  you can have irritable bowel syndrome  look how many million people have  irritable bowel syndrome you could like  i don't by the way i don't have anything  wrong with me but you don't know you  could develop diabetes you could develop  some kind of health problem you get  human hpv human metabolism i think you  could have all kinds of problems when  you're 45 or 55 and you can't roll up  your sleeves and and go out and get  bitten by leeches in cambodia and laos  no more but i was really aware and i  remember talking about that with my  professors i was like look if i don't do  some of these things now then when am i  going to do it and  you know  in the past i regretted that decision  because i felt like i lost the only  chance i had to get a master's degree  and a phd and now i'm so happy i made  that decision because i know how  worthless the master's degree and phd  are i know what's what's through that  door i know what i'm missing out on and  i i understand that why all the people  who went through that door and got mma  and phd why all of them envied me to me  it was a mystery in the past what you  envy me i'm out here sleeping under a  mosquito net in laos  you know  i was doing something they'd always  wanted to do and they never got the  opportunity to okay  okay shout out to melissa quote i so  this is from charlie again quote i think  you and melissa make a great couple  we paid the price to be this nice we  have certainly we have certainly put in  the work  uh quote i think you and melissa make a  great couple melissa said on her channel  how much she has grown as a person with  you are you happy together now so like  the one word answer is yes  um  you know  this also relates to vegan gains frankly  you know  one thing i'm reluctant to talk about it  because i don't want to give it as  advice and and make it a model for other  people to follow and i'll be real with  you when i was younger i was influenced  by that kind of thing i was influenced  by people talking about their  relationships and  looking at things as a model but like  this relationship was bad for like four  years for me not for her for me it was  bad for four years and you know i was  very generous and positive and  disciplined and supportive and kept  working on it kept putting the time in  and now i'm happy now it's it's  asymmetrical and i think if you guys go  back and look over the first four years  that's obvious like sorry no offense but  basically the relationship was great for  melissa from day one and for me it was  really bad for a really long time  but  you know  [Laughter]  um yeah i mean i just say i know it's a  hacking phrase but you know yeah i know  today the relationship is great and um  you know i said this years ago on the  channel most people have a job where you  can't work twice as hard to make twice  as much money you may have a job where  you can work twice as hard to make five  percent more money or you may have a job  where working twice as hard doesn't  change your outcomes at all right  most people are in a job where they  minimize how much they work because  working hard won't really help them you  know  in your relationships  especially your relationship with your  wife with your husband  that kind of relationship if you work  twice as hard  you get more than twice the results so  yeah i worked really really hard through  the first four years of this  relationship  and uh no i mean  i would say approximately the last one  year has been really great for me  [Laughter]  if you don't mind if i talk about myself  for a minute here and yeah i mean just  for melissa it's it's very different  it's a very asymmetrical relationship we  made tons of videos time within the past  and i would just mention i i don't think  you're going to get this kind of  reflection from richard from vegans all  right  okay another great question but it's  gonna have to be for another video  another day quote what goals do you and  melissa have together personally and  professionally for the future  how many hours did we talk about that  this week  so sure there will be a video coming out  in the future but you're not uh you're  not gonna not gonna get a uh not gonna  get a further  answer that now anyway sorry so at this  moment i just don't wanna get into this  but charlie's asked uh how can i support  your work at this way buy the book man  and you know we'll talk you can talk to  me on patreon you can buy the book and  do whatever we'll see what's possible um  but you know basically  my cooperation my collaboration other  people depends on talent  and  you know  talent is scarce  but yeah for years i was looking for  people i could work with and  i work alone  because talent is scarce okay returning  to this set of messages my reply quote  richard  and this is a classic iso missouri email  in that it has a numbered bullet point  instead of  okay so numbered list  if any of you have had in-depth  conversations by email  you'll recognize the format so my reply  richard one  did it even occur to you to talk about  this in a constructive way  two  local time here equals 11 23 pm so i am  replying without going back and  listening to the video however i'm  willing to presume at this moment that  you have a reasonable request that  you're stating in an extremely  unreasonable way  i.e blackmail and threats  three  let me just speculate as to what the  reasonable request might be  that you could have made in a parallel  universe  quote  hi isil i know that you're not aware  that i'm currently living under  probation but under the terms the court  set for me i'm not actually able to own  firearms in your video around 6 15 you  suggest the possibility that i could own  firearms it would really mean a lot to  me if you could edit the video and  re-upload a version clarifying that i  have written to you letting you know  that i do not in fact own any frail  firearms close quote  there were 10 different ways this could  be worded that would not have been  blackmail  dude i don't know if you imagine that  you know me but maybe you've heard me  say about ten thousand times that i'm a  man of principle and integrity and i do  the right thing only and precisely  because it is the right thing to do  just saying this like guys if you ever  deal with these things like you can try  to motivate the other person  what are you going to do bribe me  threaten me like what about what about  just the feeling we do the right thing  goes through anything you know what i'm  saying anyway  um  yeah it doesn't occur to him it's  because it's alienated you know he  assumes everyone else thinks and feels  and operates the way he does which is  that they'll only respond to threats of  violence force compulsion is that  stupid  anyway  um  but i continue quoting this email you  know  i don't like dorian ryder he really  harmed me i do not lie about durianrider  if i'm wrong it's not because i'm lying  so likewise i would not lie about you  richard if i've said something in my  video that is false or misleading due to  either one my sincere ignorance or two  imprecision or vagueness of wording  i would be entirely eager to rectify  that simply because it is the right  thing to do  this is apparently so incomprehensible  to you that you open your very first  email to me with blackmail and threats  you give a lecture about morality and  ethics for hours and hours on youtube  your debates often evoke formal logic  and refined academic concepts of ethical  theory  but this really shows how totally  ethically illiterate you are and how  you're totally incapable of  understanding someone like myself  this is deep  [Laughter]  point four  the video does not state as a fact that  you own real firearms you know exactly  what it states it points out the  peculiar vagueness of what you said and  it contrasts that to your statements  that you would like to own firearms that  you plan to own firearms in future etc  and it asks whether or not your  vagueness was intentional because only  the firearms shown on screen are fake  here meaning  air guns or bb guns so it is a type of  gun but it's considered not a real gun  however  if that statement is incorrect  misleading or if you were just  personally concerned that it could be  perceived as misleading by people in the  audience who may not be listening  carefully i would be happy to make an  amendment or clarification the video i.e  to edit that part of the video and  re-upload it simply because it is the  right thing to do  five  ending this email  really question why you're blackmailing  me you know nor vegan also used  blackmail as this as the default mode of  problem solving with both myself and  vegan foot soldier  and that's a real sign of dishonesty on  this part end of the email  okay so now we get richard's reply  this is still on the same day uh in  february of 2019  quote i didn't blackmail you i told you  what i was going to do if you don't take  down your slander videos  it's great i didn't blackmail you i just  told you what i'm going to do if you  don't do what i'm  asking you to do correct okay great  clarification i didn't blackmail you i  just told you i'm gonna do if you don't  do what i'm trying to force you to do  okay great close quote  we continue quote you're making criminal  accusations against me which are not  true  this point this puts both this is  exactly the kind of thing he he hates on  social justice warriors for too right  quote you are making criminal  accusations against me which are not  true and this puts both me and my wife  in danger yeah his life is in danger  because of my youtube video right this  goes against youtube community  guidelines so i have contacted my  multi-channel network and they will try  to get your slander videos removed if  you do not do it yourself just close  quote just pause for a second you know  it's not slander  per se to make criminal allegations  against somebody you can write a  newspaper article saying in my opinion  this person should be accused of this  crime and should go to court  that's that's part of freedom of speech  people do it for example against  politicians other people do that against  johnny depp and amber hurt anyway make  the fact that you allege a crime  doesn't mean it's slammer slander  doesn't mean it's defamation that in  itself right like think about the  meaning of the word  allegation  right  i've made videos alleging uh  donald trump  who committed serious crimes  it's free that is part of freedom speech  now when does that become slander and  defamation  that's another another question great  question from audience why is there  daylight outside  it has to do with the earth not being  flat that is what it has to do with let  me tell you it's a good question  unfortunately it'd be a whole other  video to get to the answer all right  um  [Music]  okay we continue quote if youtube is  unwilling to remove your videos  slandering me then i will pursue legal  action against you  i don't care if you make videos  criticizing me but when you make up  false criminal accusations against me  that's going too far  i would okay just close quote  has richard has vegan gains ever made  criminal allegations against someone  else  have you ever heard richard  claim that someone else  was using an illegal drug like steroids  that's criminal allegation  that has a serious sense statute right  like it's so dishonest and manipulative  what he's doing here and again if you've  just even seen my earlier video you'll  get a sense of both what i said and the  spirit in which i said it like that it  really is kind of constructive criticism  asking questions about his future  whatever you know  well we've seen richard in a very  mean-spirited way make criminal  allegations against a huge number of  people  i can't count no how many people has he  made allegations of criminal activity  against on the internet right  and to some extent  that is a use of his freedom of speech  he is allowed to say that in his opinion  he thinks this person is using  illegal drugs i mean there are other  channels that  that type the fact that something is an  allegation or something that is a  criminal allegation that does not prove  slander or defamation in and of itself  right  talk about the assassination of jfk  making criminal allegations against all  kinds of people what are you going to  say um  anyway these kinds of things this is not  the criterion for definition of slander  neither in canada nor in the united  states  and look i've never heard of anyone's  life being ruined by the claim that  they're using um  uh performance dancing drugs steroids  and so on the only person i can remember  complaining about that was john venus  john venus insisted that he didn't use  steroids that it was a serious  problem for him in his career to have  someone on youtube say that he used  steroids  i don't know the truth of either side of  that argument i have no idea but that's  it's very rare for people to claim that  it actually does impact them negatively  um that other people claim they use  steroids but that is a criminal  allegation and that is i mean that is  not the only criminal allocation  you know you can say that i criticized  richard harshly richard has criticized  everyone harshly and sometimes unfairly  all right anyway so we continue this is  reading richard's second email to me in  this sequence  um  if youtube is unwilling to remove your  videos slandering me that i will pursue  legal action against you i don't care if  you make videos criticizing me but when  you make up false criminal accusations  against me that's going too far i would  suggest you take those videos down  there's only one video by the way he  keeps saying in the plural but this only  concerns one video uh those videos down  he may not have even watched  um  [Music]  to avoid getting community guidelines  strikes in your channel which could  result in your channel being terminated  and to avoid any legal issues yeah this  is not blackmail this is not a threat  right  i have no interest in getting your  channel terminated or pursuing legal  action against you this is not a threat  i just want to make sure my wife and i  are safe  the reason i have contacted you is to  avoid having this escalate any further  and i have no interest in continuing an  argument with you end of the end of the  email  yeah that's interesting richard now here  you are on the internet  years later and what are you saying  about me so when you wrote this in 2019  did you have any inkling did you have  any notion in your mind that i had  called the cops on you that i had talks  to you why is that absent from this  email correspondent richard why did that  notion that allegation that claimed why  did that only creep into your head later  so obviously as of february 2019  you hadn't made up this story  in your head yet a story that is utterly  false and they sort of can't even be  true hey richard when that happened when  the police kicked down your door when  somebody called the police on you or  somebody doxed you whatever the story i  don't even know but according to you  somebody docked you and somebody called  the police where was i living  geographically  where was i what was i doing at that  time like the whole timeline of this  makes no sense and again he he told me  that he had this problem with the police  and he got to see and hear how shocked  that was i if it wasn't skype it was  another service like but i believe that  was a skype call where he saw my face as  well as heard my voice  and yeah and also we had uh i believe  facebook messages following up uh after  that it could have been messages within  skype but whatever same thing text  messages i was really shocked to hear  that he had this  this problem with police so richard on i  think somewhere you still have those  memories buried under whatever [ __ ]  you and your  you and your uh  wife made up okay so look i'm just gonna  pause so next is another email from me  to richard and i think there's maybe one  more email after this and then it's  wrapped up  okay so look i've got a challenge here i  am challenging a donor from the audience  so  this is the here is the art of biting  the hand that feeds you charlie says  quote i'll give one thousand dollars to  have you and vegan gains talk live on  youtube together  okay  charlie  i want to publish an illustrated  storybook for children  you can hear  some of the stories on my youtube  channel right now there's a playlist for  it okay i one of my stories i wrote  in both chinese and english it was  actually first written in chinese i also  wrote the english version and it's been  translated into like five other  languages i forget maybe seven other  languages all right  why wouldn't you donate one thousand  dollars  to have that storybook illustrated and  published like if you have one thousand  dollars to donate  i have something better to do with that  for the future of the vegan movement for  this youtube channel for everybody this  is not the only example i have so sorry  i can i can get that really quick on my  channel um the story the first story i'm  thinking of is called only earthworms  want to see the sky now again i'm not  saying this to insult you  but okay i understand you would get some  kind of thrill  so yeah here's the playlist  and this will also i think give you  some of the translations of it into  other languages right so i think i'll  check if that play if that link works so  there you go you don't have to listen to  the video now that'll just give you the  list there's a story oh whoops okay if  you click on that it actually starts  playing the video that's not the perfect  link to send  um  yes even earthworms want to uh  want to see this guy so let me just see  what happens when you click on that link  um  you know okay but that story to publish  that in english and chinese to publish  that in some combination of languages  that could be so meaningful for so many  people  like not just me i have had people tell  me they broke down weeping when they  first  read that story actually two of my  chinese teachers two different chinese  people said they broke down  uh weeping when they read that story you  know a lot of people have said it's  really a tremendously moving  tremendously meaningful story so there  you go that link should work it'll give  you and you can see i think there's a  dutch translation there forget if we  have a german translation  uh  so i think swedish i forget how many  languages there are in there right  um  we had a japanese translation but it  wasn't of good enough quality so i  actually took it off the internet but  there used to be a japanese translation  this is only one example but like i've  been on the internet for so long talking  about really positive things we can do  to change the world and dude it's been  crickets all right now another another  uh example was the storybook i wrote  about socrates  so here i think you've got this in at  least two languages right now so  this is on a  this has been translated at least into i  think german and french so this is one  of the stories i made about  the fables i wrote allegorical fables  arguments there's a whole sequence of  them  fabulous book and not just for vegans i  think the vegan message is in there in  one of the fables i think so one out of  seven stories or something deals with  the veganism but this is a fantastic  story and this was this was pop uh  this  [Laughter]  this guy said crickets question mark you  have a ton of laughs every time i tell a  joke yeah not qrikets in that sense but  anyway so look this is another storybook  for children project and in this case it  is partly about the vegan message but  it's partly about challenging christmas  and challenging kind of the indolence of  our culture and really trying to offer  something better so that a thousand  dollars would be plenty i mean i'm just  saying you can go on fiverr right now i  don't know if you know this website  but there are different websites where  illustrators will work and probably a  thousand dollars would pay for the  illustration  and then you could also probably pay for  the the actual printing let's say have a  number of hardcover like i don't know i  know seven hundred dollars go to the  illustrator and then be 300 left off to  somehow you know promote and get the get  the get the publishing rolling but  anyway you could look into maybe maybe  i'm wrong maybe all thousand dollars i  have to go to the australian  um you can look into it and it'd  probably be different for the two books  but sure just one thousand dollars could  make a could make a big difference um in  either those projects and those are not  my only ideas so you know this is just  this shows how much i've changed so  there is a video i made about the  decline here we go there's a video i  made titled veganism declined by 50 in  two years so this is a long video but if  you go to the very end i would say  approximately the final five minutes of  this  this video says and i was really  appealing for donors and people in the  audience tell me at the end of this  video  again approximately the last five  minutes maybe it's the last seven  minutes i don't know but anyway you can  click around a little bit when you do it  at the end of this video it says guys  there are so many projects i want to do  if i had a larger audience or if i had  donor support to do them and it gives  all these positive examples of things  i'd love to do now i've changed  you know some of those ideas today  i wouldn't do for a thousand dollars and  i wouldn't do for five thousand dollars  and i wouldn't do for ten thousand  dollars if it's a million dollars okay  i'll think about it but you know for  years i was talking about all these  positive things we do and you guys know  i talked about opening a vegan bakery  and  all these different things so dude yes i  have been looking for support from  donors as well as collaborators and so  on for years  but  you know like a pissing contest with  richard like you know getting into uh  you know  like i get it i told like look i'm not  saying to say to you i totally see how  you could get a thousand dollars worth  of entertainment from me and richard  vick totally all right and there was a  time i offered to do boxing matches with  richard i was in better shape than i am  now i mean i really have to hit the gym  but i remember was in pretty good shape  and i said like richard you challenge  everyone else to a fighting except me  why don't we do a boxing match why don't  we do you know whatever why don't we do  this um  i i will choose not to tell you what he  said back what he said back was pretty  dark actually but anyway there have been  times when i offered to um in good humor  you know do a boxing match for charity  you know for the vegan movement it's not  not to hurt somebody you know um there  have been times when i  when i did that and i like i see how  that could be worth a thousand dollars  to someone or ten thousand dollars  someone you know what i mean  but  you know  [Laughter]  i am not jason blaha you know what can i  tell you i have real aspirations to to  change the world  and  you know sorry even just the video i  uploaded the video i uploaded before  this one i asked the question over and  look i can ask this to melissa too like  for melissa reflecting on her own life  and for you in the audience but i asked  richard like richard what do you want to  do with the next 10 years of your life  do you want to be a personal trainer do  you want to be a nutritional science  expert do you want to be a stand-up  comedian do you want to be a filmmaker  like i just say  i'm not i'm not trying to force melissa  to become a personal trainer  [Laughter]  but regardless of the career like we all  have to ask ourselves that  and like really i think you have there  so also like if you if you want to be a  creative person if you want to be a  whatever it may be you might want to do  comedy you might want to do filmmaking  you might want to do documentary  filmmaking you know this this kind of  conflict for the sake of conflict with  someone like richard um it's it's not  the way to move forward and i just  remind you so i think charlie you were  here when i said it but eight months ago  the last time this was proposed i was  trying to get richard to raise up his  own level of education by saying well  richard  how about if we're going to discuss this  issue we both read a book first from  cover to cover and then discuss what's  in the book instead of this just being  about you  you know making an exhibition of your  ego but anyway so charlie is saying uh  he's willing to give a thousand dollars  to publish the book so  let's get some emojis let's get some  applause emojis for charlie okay charlie  has stepped up to give one thousand  dollars for the publication of the book  or the illustration of the book thank  you charlie charlie uh out of the six  million people or something you've seen  my videos  uh you are the first to offer to pay a  thousand dollars so i've had a lot of  offers a lot of people we've got about  6.2 million people have seen my videos  you're the first person to offer to pay  a thousand dollars to get the book else  but i have  i've got some let's get some applause  emojis for charlie but yeah i i have i  have had a lot of people telling me how  much uh that those books both of them  really moved them emotionally but a lot  of people were writing and saying how  much it meant to them and can they get  illustrated and all this stuff um  but yeah not that many people put their  money where their mouth is and look  people with money who are willing to use  it charitably to change the world are  scarce so charlie you're already part of  a scarce  but people with the talent  to change the world that's even more  scarce  and yeah for years i was looking for a  vegan illustrator who could do it so  sure but you know a thousand dollars a  long way and guys in case you don't know  i mean i've still got this court case  with durianrider that's all been paid  for by donations in the audience and i'm  still broke  okay so continuing with reading these  these emails  um guys if you have a second hit the  thumbs up button do it it'll help people  find this find this relic yeah how  you know i try to make videos that are  still going to be meaningful if i come  back and watch them five years later you  know  if you come back and watch this five  years later think of the memories that's  gonna gen x gamer five years from now  you're gonna have great grandchildren  you're gonna be sitting and watching  this the second oh i remember those days  anyway yeah i i try to produce all my  content at a level that's meaningful  enough that i could watch it again five  years later and not feel that's a waste  of my time or anyone's time  and by the way on that heading  all the videos i made criticizing  richard i think all of them hold up i  would go back and watch any of those  videos again today and a lot of them  shock me with how interesting like there  are interesting things that come up in  passing in those videos that like i've  forgotten about like oh wow that's an  interesting point so if i go back and  watch my old content even something  that's basically cussing out richard  and look sorry  you know generation x gamer he already  has six grandchildren  well you could have eight  that's a joke  anyway  five years from now your grandchildren  could be old enough to listen to me  cussing out vegan gains on you  [Laughter]  i've never tried to calculate how many  grandchildren my father has i i don't  even want to know  because my father had nine kids so i  don't know i don't know how many how  many grandchild grandchildren  but i'm doing my part to contribute to  the world's overpopulation as we go here  all right anyway sorry this is a  digression from uh from a digression um  yeah i don't regret the videos i made  criticizing richard and i i don't you  know i don't think any of them were  mean-spirited or bad their intentions i  think they all  they all hold up and if richard had the  self-discipline to listen to any of them  today  um it could have changed his life in the  past and it could still change his life  now  all right so here's my reply to richard  in the sequence richard  you have been inaccurate  i'm choosing not to say dishonest but  inaccurate in claiming that my video  states circa 6 minutes and 15 seconds  that you currently own guns  do you want me to quote exactly what the  video states  just pause close quo  i never understand these people whether  it's  vegan gains whether it's vegan foot  soldier whether it's german so many  people getting these things whether it's  unnatural vegan swayze  it's crazy to me the extent to which  they just fabricate and hallucinate what  i said in videos and it's like dude like  is your memory this bad and distorted or  like what because like you can just so  when it's a youtube video you can click  and english is your first language like  there's nothing you could just go back  and hear exactly what i said  but yeah a lot of these people have  dealt with i think they're it's not so  much they're being dishonest with me  it's that they're dishonest with  themselves and they're a little bit  crazy and they don't there for some  reason they're not able to really hear  what i'm saying and they don't really  remember what i said and then in their  own mind it gets distorted anyway  obviously now as the years have gone by  richard has distorted this whole episode  in his memory and blamed me for all  kinds of things all right so we continue  here  um but i asked him do you want me to  quote exactly what the video says why  are you lying to me about it and like  what's the point of lying to me like you  think i can't check you think i can't  click on my own video and check what i  said all right continuing quote i have  not responded with hostility i responded  by pointing out one that you were  issuing threats and engaging in  blackmail and two that this is really  absurd because as you may know i am  really genuinely willing to do the right  thing just because it's the right thing  to do just pause my point here is even  if i don't like durianrider even if i  don't like vegan gains i'm willing to do  something just to help them out like  just if someone writes to me and says  hey look this is [ __ ] up my life  i'm willing to help man like i'm willing  to do the right thing just because the  right thing to do like i just why try to  blackmail me like as your first move why  try to threaten me or bully me like it's  just stupid anyway don't and in his case  he'd known me for years already he'd  seen so many he should know what kind of  guy i am he should know that he can  appeal to that side of my character  instead of trying to manipulate me in  this way and instead of lying to me it's  really a bad move and now he's lined  himself up  question from charlie again he asks  quote still broke question mark don't  mean to plot don't mean to pry but how  much do you make a month and what are  your monthly expenses i would like to  support you melissa financially so  charlie you may not know this but i'm  one of the few youtubers who has stated  on the internet exactly how much money  he makes uh we've been joking for some  time that season three on this channel  will begin when i become a wage slave  again when i'm working at mcdonald's or  when i'm working at 7-eleven but it is  uh it is very much anticipated that this  channel is going to return to being me  having some kind of minimum wage job  like this uh it is i i will foreshadow a  little bit that's unlikely to be here in  canada we assume we're gonna move  permanently to the united states of  america  location undisclosed um and not for the  sake of secrecy but we don't know  exactly we're talking about exactly  we're moving but yeah i know minimum  wage employment is is very likely in my  future  and um sorry again a contrast to gen x  gamer so gen x gamer has talked about  this in the past he used to work a  really physical minimum wage job but he  moved up from being a laborer to being a  foreman and then he moved up to two  other forms of employment well guess  what i'm overeducated and my transition  is in the opposite direction okay guys i  i've got a university degree and trust  me  i am better educated than most of the  professors most people with phds the  people i've met face to face like sorry  sitting around  it's depressing i mean i wish i wish  there were professors i could look up to  but there aren't  um but yeah yeah i'm i'm overeducated  informally more than formally and yeah  my employment prospects um  my employment prospects resemble those  of a high school dropout so yeah and i  think there were plenty of high school  dropouts who are going to be earning  more money than in the future so yeah uh  and i'm not mostly about this i've  stated on the internet exactly how much  i make from youtube exactly how much i  make from patreon and the only period in  my life in which my earnings were enough  to pay my rent was when i was living in  in taiwan so that's now about three  years ago and that's because my rent was  so low so i'm sorry i forget what my  rent was but like let's say my rent was  200 a month or something like with  something like that so it was like my  rent was 200 a month and let's say i was  making 400 of youtube that was the only  period in which that was true  sorry but look in other ways my audience  has been wonderful to me  blah blah blah blah blah  needless to say  um  and look you know sorry just just be  able just say something nice about my  audience  melissa and i were talking about this  the other day i know all kinds of people  who've written books  dude like  the vast majority of books you might as  well take your manuscript and dump it  into the toilet the next time you take a  dump you know what i'm saying like it's  going it's going out with the sewage to  you know have seagulls fly over it in  circles over the deep blue sea man  that's where your [ __ ] manuscript is  going you know like  if i had published this book the book i  already have published and the next book  i'm gonna publish  if i had published it without having an  audience on youtube right it would be a  book by a chap about a thing i mean  some guy wrote a book on some topic and  you know not even not even your own  friends and family read that [ __ ] so you  know i i completely owe it to my  audience you know developed here on  youtube that that book will frankly be  immortalized uh look guys i i'm not  humble  i think i've written a better book than  gary yourofsky ever wrote or gary  francione wrote or hey hey hey hey uh  earthling ed yes i think i'm a better  author than earthlinghead  and um  cosmic skeptic there's my competition  better book than cosmic scale right and  whether quickly or slowly with time in  terms of that  genre  uh sure that book is going to be  remembered as one of the most important  books in that genre  uh and i don't have a lot of competition  i've already named my competition uh  gary francione gary yourofsky etc  well guys if it wasn't for you if it  wasn't for this audience and each one of  you who clicks the link on amazon each  one of you who writes a review on amazon  or it's a review on on goodreads you are  creating the legacy of that book that's  what's going to make that book rich  reach people 10 years from now 20 years  from now  etc oh  oh like a knife through the heart  you vile noah harari did he get his name  right i know you're talking about but oh  but i don't know how to spell it  oh  oh like a knife oh sharper than a  serpent's tooth jesus you compare me to  you valeno harare  i'm flattered and insulted at the same  time all right let me continue with this  email hey guys great things are showing  up sometimes i do these live streams and  people just sit there and stun stunned  assignments i i appreciate that too some  of the responsibilities is like whoa man  this is heavy people but it's good we  managed to we managed to really  involve the audience in a positive way  here in keeping scoring on vegan gains  all right  it's something we can all participate in  all right so it was just saying look i  am genuinely someone who's willing to do  the right thing just because the right  thing to do  continue  sometimes  the right thing to do is to clarify  something vague that could mislead  people  even if there was no intent to mislead  them  that's a great lesson in life you guys  may but like you know  sometimes you say something the internet  that hurts someone's feelings you didn't  mean to say what kind of what they hear  or  you said something and it never occurred  to you the audience would interpret it  or misinterpret it that way okay so is  the right thing to do is to clarify  something you said that was vague right  all right next paragraph  sometimes the right thing to do is say  quote look i've explained my perspective  on this however  somebody may be hurt by the discussion  for these reasons close quote all right  sometimes the right thing to do is to  explain quote when i made that video i  was unaware of factors x y and z  and now richard has written to me to  inform me of x y and z close quote right  these are constructive ways to solve the  problem and you know editing a video  only takes a few minutes eg to upload a  different version of the video to  reflect the correction okay now here's  where it turned on  have you ever done this richard  i'm just going to pause  okay  so  richard has said things that defame me  richard has said things that slander me  i can't make a list of all the people  he's defamed and slander i can't make a  list of all the people he's just  insulted horribly but like here i am  like spelling out from the methodology  of being a good person on the internet  basically right it's like well how about  you richard  and like the reality is no richard only  does something when somebody threatens  to shut down his youtube channel when  they threaten to take him to court etc  exactly the steps he's he said this is a  kind of psychological projection where  he's presuming the only way to negotiate  with me is to bully him the way someone  else would have to bully  richard in turn  in order to get these these results  he's not willing to change what he has  to say it says okay uh charlie again  asks uh quote why not come to california  the weather is great and there are still  areas that are affordable oh  so charlie i'm surprised i guess you  haven't seen i made a sequence of videos  from my perspective it's a really  interesting sequence of videos  maybe no one else thinks so that's okay  but i made a series of videos talking  about being a filmmaker  and they they conclude with a video  saying we're going to move to los  angeles  so over the last two years  we have we have talked about that a lot  off camera and on camera so it's it's a  really long sequence of videos the last  part is title i'm gonna give you the  link here but this is believe it or not  so this is 58 minutes long and it's not  the whole it's not the whole story so  you get 58 minutes here  and as i recall that that concludes the  sequence  and  the videos before it are kind of  philosophizing about  about youtube  about making documentary films about  being a creative intellectual this  really relates to vegan gains too  because it's what vegans could have and  should have done with his life and  didn't do whatever you want to say you  know um well it's talking about the life  of the mind and pursuing political  change through um  uh  pursuing political change through the  arts whether that's through stand-up  comedy documentary filmmaking narrative  fiction filmmaking so yeah i thought  about that  i don't don't get the books paid but i  could hold up a stack of books i've  bought on this about screenwriting and  filmmaking and we talked to film schools  in california too we talked to film  schools in l.a so yes you know  california it has been i would say it's  still probably option b on the list but  i think the greater la area is no longer  an unchallenged option a but no it  definitely still is on the list and yeah  sorry but to answer the other part of  the question yes what motivates you to  come to us in general the positive side  of it is exactly what you get in that  video moving to los angeles to pursue  filmmaking as a youtuber the positive  side is and by the way so if you read my  book  it completely spells there if you read  the future of an illusion  it completely tells you why i want to  move the united states the negative side  of it isn't stated there the negative  side of the critique of canada of what's  wrong with canada  shout out to jj mccullough  so you know partly the question is what  are you moving to  and partly it's what are you moving away  from you know like what are you escaping  from and then what positively is is  drawing you there and yeah i mean i have  other options i could move to the south  of france i could move to israel  uh we considered moving to greece for  some time but you know sure i could live  in thailand i could live in taiwan i  could live in communist china a lot of  places  but sure  um the model  of how to be a dissident intellectual  the model of how to be an intellectual  who tries to change the world set out in  both of my books future of an illusion  and no more manifestos  i think if you read those books you will  understand very well why i want to move  to the united states of america and why  i do not for example want to just kind  of retire to thailand where i would have  an easier life and a more pleasant life  many ways why i'd rather be in the  struggle of living in poverty in the  united states of america rather than  living in frankly relative affluence and  wealth and needs in thailand that's  that's what it's about for me um  no matter where i live i'm going to be  an intellectual  but how can i live in a way where i'm an  intellectual where i challenge the  status quo and try to change the world  and sure los angeles is  it's one of the options on that list no  doubt  all right so we returned to reading this  ho hard-hitting question  when are you and melissa getting married  oh  oh  [Laughter]  soon  uh  i asked i will reveal this now  i asked kevin smith  to officiate our wedding  and that [ __ ] never got back to  me so if any of you in the audience i  mean probably a thousand people will see  this video  if you have a connection to kevin smith  you write to kevin smith and say look  [ __ ] you're vegan now  this dude is vegan this dude's a leader  in the vegan community you have to  officiate the wedding [ __ ] okay  you're both atheist you're both vegan  whatever we're both wannabe filmmakers  yes i would count both myself and kevin  smith has wannabes  all right okay kevin smith and i'm  certain kevin smith has seen a few  videos on this channel i won't say why i  i i strongly suspect kevin smith has  seen at least one or two videos on this  youtube channel over the years but you  know kevin smith i asked him to  officiate our wedding and it's a crying  shame that he hasn't gotten back to me  don't don't act like you've got signed a  better to do kevin don't come on we know  we know and kevin you officiate weddings  all the time kevin smith will officiate  a wedding for any loser who stands up in  the audience and says he's a big fan of  star wars  i'm a big fan of star wars and you know  i wanted to get married so could you  officially every time he says oh yeah  i'd be so happy to  kevin smith okay  and kevin it's gonna be a vegan wedding  come on you're gonna get to eat the  vegan donuts or whatever i don't know  whatever  it's gonna be a sober vegan wedding so  there you go man  anyway  [Laughter]  yeah and to be to be fair i was a very  harsh critic of kevin smith back before  he was vegan so he might remember that  but hey now we're all vegan so it's all  gravy you know what i'm saying  all right um  okay so i asked richard have you ever  done this richard have you ever shown  this much good will towards someone  writing into you saying that you'd made  a video that hurt them  if someone wrote to you saying that your  video had been unfair to them or  misrepresented them in some way  maybe  maybe you have  but if you have it's certainly  remarkable to me that absolutely no  method other than threats and blackmail  occurred to you  now by the way guys  i can remember some videos that  richard deleted from his channel  you probably you can too  i can remember some videos  about  allegations of a four-letter word that  begins with an r  and  rhymes with cape  oh i can remember some videos that  richard deleted from his own channel  maybe he got threats of this kind that  he said maybe someone said hey that they  were gonna sue him or take him to court  you know i don't know  um but richard has deleted some of it is  i can't remember any time when he took a  video and made these kinds of amendments  i'm talking about where you censor it or  add a clarification or say hey look like  richard wrote into me after to say he  doesn't own any real guns he only owns  bb guns i forget the other kind of gun  but as they say there were other weapons  on screen things like swords and knives  and crap so it's not the case that he  was only showing toy guns  that's really misleading  and anyway what he said himself on  camera is already damning enough it  shows why the controversy exists i mean  what can i say richard you're not  controversial for no reason  in any case  we continue  quote now from my perspective you are  also lying  but perhaps you're merely being  inaccurate or vague and perhaps you're  not intentionally deceiving me  you've made one claim so far  you find what i say around six minutes  and 15 seconds of one video upsetting  because you think some people may  interpret or misunderstand it as meaning  that you currently own real firearms  well that is not what the video says  i.e i do not make that claim and i can  quote you exactly what i do say  but i can still sympathize with the  notion that you'd want to publicly  clarify that you do not own real  firearms and that i have already said  that i would be pleased to upload an  edited version of that video that  clarifies this fact  so eg for example quote richard wrote in  to reassure me that he does not  currently own any real firearms and that  he is under terms of probation that do  not allow him to do so close quote all  right  that would be a fix slash correction  newspapers do that all the time so again  whenever you're having trouble thinking  about the ethics or morality of what we  do here on youtube or what we do on  twitter  i think in comparison to you to  newspaper editorial policy is often  useful because newspapers do make  mistakes right all right okay  now instead of responded instead of  responding positively to the cooperative  spirit of that message you write back  saying quote you're making clear  quote you're making criminal accusations  against me which are not true and this  puts both me and my wife in danger close  quote so that's him i'm quoting him back  what he says to me  uh  i'm left to suppose that this is  inaccurate in much the same way as your  earlier claim  whether that's because of dishonesty on  your part or perhaps just because you're  emotionally overwhelmed okay period  again fast forward to 2022  he's now made up a story in his own mind  that i called the cops on him that i  snitched him that i had something to do  with doxing him  right he didn't even have that concept  so yes the possibility that he is  emotionally overwhelmed and letting his  emo his imagination run away with him  that was possible in 2019 it's still  possible today but  [Music]  what he's saying  can't possibly be true i mean it's also  the case that he has no evidence to  prove it and i have evidence of what  happened at every single stage of this  including the interview you gave to me  richard like what am i supposed to say  it's just ridiculous but of course he  has a larger audience so probably the  lies he's telling are going to become  immortalized in the internet it's so  it's so discouraging that they're going  to be so many mean-spirited people and  that's why defamation law exists right  that's why you can go after someone for  defamation in court because it's so  damaging someone like him someone with a  big audience makes up a story about you  probably [ __ ] two years from now  somebody's gonna walk up to me at a  vegan restaurant and say hey bro that's  not cool that you talk to the cops about  vegan  someone's gonna step to me about this  [ __ ] that that kind of crap happens to  me and yes it mostly happens over skype  rather than face to face  but it has it has happened people have  stepped me face to face in real life  um  and as i like to say  i'm not a nice guy  i have handled threats of violence face  to face in real life  it went well for me  [Laughter]  i'm not a nice guy i'm just nicer than  these guys and i'm not a tough guy but  i'm tougher than these guys all right so  we continue coming to the end of this  email correspondence because you'll be  surprised to see that richard has  nothing to say in reply  all right  um  however i've shown you already that i'm  willing to make corrections and  amendments to anything i've said that's  incorrect  why not respond positively  constructively cooperatively and let me  know what other quote unquote criminal  accusations that are not true you'd want  to see rectified because again before he  was saying there were like multiple  videos i've said something in and that  like there were multiple things i've  said that are not and no it's just one  thing in one video at one moment that  he's actually complaining so like what  what else are you claiming i said and  even then the one thing he complained  about it's not remotely true he's  grossly lying and misrepresenting  what i said in that video all right so  this email ends with me saying i  honestly do not know of any there's a  lot of criticism of your conduct in  these videos but for example my  commentary on the psychology of  self-justification involved in your  formation of your opinions on gun  control policy dot dot dot  nothing in that analysis has even the  aura of criminal allegations  so he did not reply  after that point okay  so one day later i wrote to him again uh  boy how quickly can i read this so okay  guys i'll answer your questions one  second then i'll read you the final  message in this which is me writing to  him again and he doesn't reply he  doesn't reply after that ever  so he goes away and sulks even though  i'm saying to him look i'll change the  video for you all right just out of good  will you don't have to threaten to sue  me you don't have to whatever i'm happy  to make the change because you wrote in  to clarify  you know that  you wrote in to request this  clarification just to help you out  um but yeah i do think this final email  raises the more interesting  philosophical political question here  all right guys what did i miss  what is it we managed to do a whole  we're going to do a whole broadcast  without ods contributing  alexa what's the time in zurich  this is in zurich it's 6 50 am come on  you should be up you should be on  youtube come on  i got some regular contributions it  didn't uh didn't show up today  oh tough question so this is this is  really on topic too  who's the better cook  you or melissa  have you ever caught each other great  question different question have you  ever caught each other in a lie whoops  okay what is your biggest critique of  each other okay so three very different  very different questions so i'll just  answer the cooking one first you know um  melissa kind of missed out on the time  of my life in which i cared about  cooking i've got to say babe you want to  turn that light on too sorry because  it's now getting dark  um  yeah yeah yeah yeah that's good just add  some more ambient light um  some of my other girlfriends i really  worked hard to cook with  only one of my girlfriends has ever been  asian by the way um but like i had an  asian girlfriend and i remember i cooked  for her mother  and stuff there were some girlfriends  where i really felt pressure on me to  cook at a high level but in this  relationship and by this stage in my  life i'd really settled into this  you know model of a meaningful life and  being an intellectual or you know i talk  a lot about not wanting to waste time  and so we like we had a period where i  used to make  pancakes for melissa every morning  and we had a period where i made pasta  for melissa pretty much either for lunch  or dinner every day i made it very  frequently it's not not seven days a  week but still five we've had periods  where i did a lot of the cooking but you  know really for most of the time we've  been together it's been about not  wasting time partly so that i have time  to do things like this with you lovely  people sir just to give a really brief  example i was listening to a podcast  today this was while i was at the gym  lifting weights i'm listening to a  podcast it's a podcast about politics  but these guys digress into mentioning  like oh did you watch the hockey game  and oh how about this sports they're  mentioning like three different sports  teams  and i'm sitting there thinking  how can anyone have the time to watch  sports on tv you know so you know the  time i have right now to do this  broadcast  it it comes at a cost and no i do not  like currently i do not put effort into  making lavish meals for melissa and i'm  just being honest with you some of my  other  ex-girlfriends and ex-wives i did put a  lot of effort into cooking  [Laughter]  i remember at a certain point with my  ex-wife where she complained she was  like look you know you used to put in so  many hours and they're cooking for me  every day and now you stop  i remember like saying to her like do  you have any idea what's going on in my  life do you have any idea what i'm doing  every day  not the worst fight we had or something  but know some of my other relationships  there's putting a lot of work in and  then the other thing is you remember we  went to  baking school together  so look i just say i do not i do not put  pressure on militia melissa to cook  lavish meals for me and she does not put  pressure on me to cook lavish meals we  very much  you know we do not  live to eat we eat to live we eat in a  very efficient way i sometimes joke that  we're like astronauts on a spacecraft  where it's just putting in the minimum  you know we get our protein get our  vitamin pill get back to work whatever  that's mostly but you know once in a  while melissa has made some lovely  birthday cakes for me  you've made cakes for me on other  occasions too so once in a while melissa  bakes a cake for me  um you know once in a while you know one  of the other of us puts in the effort to  make some special but most of the time  and guys sorry the other factor is the  quality of ingredients here in canada is  horrible so like we've we've cooked  together in france we've cooked together  in greece we've cooked together in china  we've put together in taiwan  and it's so depressing cuisine in canada  is so depressing like i feel like no  matter how much effort you put into  cooking in canada the results are going  to be mediocre at best it's really bad  so sorry i don't know if that was too  long or too short and answer your  question  um but yeah in terms of this  relationship and so on it feels like  it's wrong so uh have you ever caught  each other in a lie  so  look i mean it depends on what you mean  by a lie  you know i i have certainly caught  melissa in wishful thinking  that was false you know what i mean  where melissa had kind of  let herself think the best about  something but uh you know a lie  and like the answer might be no about a  lie like you know we're very honest with  each other but like you know the way  people normally use the word lie but  when i say wishful thinking it'd be more  something like  oh it'll be fine  it's not going to be fine  um yes that kind of  wishful thinking  evading a problem not dealing with a  problem uh which also is partly just  laziness like let's be real again like  dishonesty is one thing but lazy though  i'm just gonna not deal with this  problem and imagine it'll go away or  measure  that kind of thing which we don't in  english isn't normally it's not quite a  lie yes i've had problems in most of the  way and i'm whatever i'm 14 years older  than melissa it's an asymmetrical  relationship you know  no no offense but i don't think uh i  don't i don't think i've ever lied to  you about anything big or small not even  about rap music or something you know  and i don't i also don't think there's  ever a problem with me being evasive or  wishful things i don't think that  anything like that's happened so yeah  and you know there have been definitely  there have been things that have been  hard to talk about  there have been things where it's it's  put us where it's hard to tell the truth  because you don't want to hurt the other  person but i tell the truth that's the  way i've played it and long term it's  been the best for this relationship  but again sir i'm kind of reluctant to  set this as a model for other people  some of  [Laughter]  some of you can't live by the rules i  live by what can i what can i say you  know  um  oh that's funny so when i when i talk to  our robot friend someone else who owns  alexa  their alexa robot answered the same  question alexa what's two plus two  two plus two  i was wondering did you have to try more  than once to get my attention  alexa stop  all right just catching up with your  questions then we're going to wrap up  this correspondence from myself ben  gaines  so wolfpack says quote the best thing  about having an ex-wife is that the  in-laws are included in the divorce no  no wolfpack the best thing about being a  youtuber who gets a divorce is that your  in-laws are on youtube denouncing you  that's  [Laughter]  my ex-wife's father has come on youtube  i think it's a matter of time before my  ex-wife wife's mother coming we'll see  if my ex-wife herself comes to youtube  or her new husband you know the dude any  of them can come on and say what a  terrible human being on and  any of them can come on youtube and say  what a terrible human being i am and in  the parlance of our times  i'm here for it  yeah so here's someone who says he both  coaches and plays minor league baseball  in mexico but he doesn't have time to  watch baseball yeah yeah that's right so  wolfpack if you don't know this i just  made a post on my um on my blog  about who my father really was because  there are people who kind of make up  myths about my father i would not  describe my father as famous  but  maybe it runs in the family he had a  certain degree of micro fame like he was  famous within a small field  famous in the world of museums and art  galleries you know and um  one of the things i've said to people  with my father just in trying to  challenge the myths that grew up around  him was to say look i knew who my father  really was i remember the guy who would  fall asleep on the couch watching  baseball  that's that's who my father really was  you know and i remember my father this  guy was supposedly so cultured and  refined  being eager and in a hurry to buy an  american newspaper uh like when he's in  europe or when he's in asia so that he  could check the baseball scores  you know that's that's who he was so  yeah my father was not a real  intellectual he really wasn't um many  people assume that i have this in common  with my father but no we're very much a  contrast and he was exactly the kind of  guy who didn't he didn't read a book in  five years but he was taking that time  and he didn't talk to his own kids he  didn't actually parent his own sons and  daughters no no no but he was taking  that time and putting it into watching  baseball  so great question i mean melissa i know  you deal with this  if you and megan gaines became friends  again  what would your advice to him be  if okay so this continues  do you want an apology from him  what message do you have for him now  close quote so look  charlie it's a totally great question  but this is now 2022.  years ago i came on camera and said  everything i had to say to the guy all  right and some of you will remember this  right away some of you could probably  give the link to the video in which this  happened  but i made a video in which i talked  about the fact like look richard you  could have built on  the positive things you had going on and  taking it in a positive direction  instead of a negative direction i gave a  whole bunch of examples but one of them  and one of them that i know pissed him  off because he wrote to me about i could  read you that email now too  um i said to him look richard you were a  critic of islam  most of his videos about islam have been  deleted right so some of you remember  that and you can see it on other  websites you can google around he made  some videos really harshly criticizing  the muslim faith  really uh  really harshly criticizing islam it's  like well richard you know like there's  been a civil war going on in syria  you could have gone to syria you could  have done humanitarian work in syria you  could have studied the language a little  bit you could have gotten to know the  history and like i'm not suggesting he  would gain a positive appreciation for  islam but he would have developed a more  nuanced critique of islam he would you  know become a more profound and you  would have done the humanitarian work  and he would have matured this person  but it's like dude instead of sitting on  your couch  playing video games like you could have  done something positive and you could do  that completely cynically as a filmmaker  too right like you could do that just to  make your youtube channel more popular  like most people would like it would be  virtue say hey here i am taking selfies  with syrian refugees here i am on the  syrian border like but i'm not  suggesting you do it cynically i'm  saying sincerely like richard instead of  just sitting on your couch and passing  judgment on muslims you could go and see  the human reality the political reality  the historical reality as it unfolds and  maybe you wouldn't help anyone  but you would become a better man now  i'm sorry from memory i gave some other  examples i think one of the other  examples i used was talking about the  border wall with mexico like you know  you can actually go to the mexican  border i remember saying that i think in  relation to jacqueline glenn and some  people too i think that's an example i  use more than one so i apologize that's  not in that specific video like you know  instead of just sitting here and  criticizing donald trump you can go  there and see the reality and talk to  those people and cross into mexico and  see the reality of the drug trafficking  and the criminal gangs and the both the  wealth and the poverty and what's going  on you could like you know you can do it  on a humanitarian basis in vegan gains  case he could set up a vegan pancake you  can give away free vegan pancakes to all  the [ __ ] refugees on the mexican  border or whatever you could speak vegan  pancakes and you could cook the pancakes  then you could put them through the wall  you know i don't know if you've seen  that but the wall has gaps the wall was  a it's really a fence you could fry up  vegan pancakes hey i'm you could say in  spanish i'm promoting veganism you could  give them the pancake through the  through the fence it's all kinds of  creative things you can do to deal with  political reality right so i'm sorry i  definitely gave the example of syria i  remember that i forget if i mentioned  mexico or some examples my point is it's  not just syria  it's not just cambodia like the  opportunities are everywhere like you  can do humanitarian work and you can  combine that with documentary filmmaking  and you can grow as a person you can  learn and you can challenge your own  ignorance to challenge yourself so that  was the advice i had for him  and he wrote back to me insulting my  penis size  that was his response  i can get the email for you now and read  it verbatim i've already put it on the  internet it was unbelievably stupid  his response was to claim that i was  lying about my penis size  and that i should put naked photos of  myself in the internet to prove it and  then he said oh sorry or are you too  busy helping  refugees in syria doing humanitarian  work for the syrian civil war he sent me  this really nasty stupid message that's  his response to that  so that shows what richard is capable of  and guys why do i do this  i don't think richard can take that  advice and use it positively  someone in the audience can like maybe 1  000 people are gonna see this video  share the link  please share the probably some of you  have grandchildren and nieces and  nephews who would benefit from hearing  the discussion  somebody  can take that advice and think about it  and change their [ __ ] lives and  including other youtubers someone out  there with a youtube channel is going to  say wow that's a great idea why don't  you now today times have changed today  it could be you go to the ukrainian  border could you go to ukraine it could  be you do all kinds of things i said  there are all kinds of pl you can go to  hong kong you can go to myanmar i  personally care a lot about myanmar i  think of broken down weeping talking  about politics and myanmar not too long  ago you know like i really care about  politics in different parts of the world  but you could you could go somewhere  where you don't care about the politics  at all  hit the books learn the language learn  the history learn the politics challenge  yourself to grow  and even if it proves to be impossible  for you to make a positive difference in  the world if it proves to be impossible  for you to do something humanitarian or  for you to make a political difference  you can still make youtube videos that  are about the impossibility of  accomplishing that and that address the  aspiration that address the ambition and  the the tragedy of your failure to  accomplish that you can do all that all  that and more  so sure i've i've told vegan gains  everything i had to say and what he  wrote back to me was a boast claiming  that he has a nicer penis than i do and  bro  this is now 2022. we've all seen your  penis because you put it on the internet  and bro  i am not intimidated okay in the penis  olympics all right bro  you may bench press more than me but but  even then  how much does he bench these days  his bench press isn't even but like bro  okay  you know i mean  if this is a pissing contest  but yeah it was incredibly stupid it was  incredibly mean spirit was incredibly in  bad taste and it showed him utterly  refusing to get the point of what i was  saying refusing to hear the advice and  refusing to take it in the spirit with  which it was intended you know  and sorry  so in that context to reduce it to a  question of penis size it was  unbelievably stupid and mean-spirited  um  yeah  but yeah he you know he's been a  hypocrite on all these things i can  remember him insulting others for doing  porn  and he went on to do porn i'm sorry but  i can remember him very i remember this  very distinctly maybe some of you will  remember this video too he was attacking  a male bodybuilder for just putting up  erotic images of himself on the internet  and they were the same as like any sexy  instagram model you know what i mean i  remember him really viciously attacking  this other guy i thought like you know  like to me it just seemed like jealousy  remember thinking like what like are you  morally opposed to bodybuilding like  like if you're attacking this guy for  this like like 80 of male bodybuilders  or something put up sexy pictures  themselves like this you know whether  it's for a gay audience or for a  straight audience or so they meet women  or just to make money as a bodybuilder  so i've really seen him in a  mean-spirited way attacking other people  for this stuff and he went on to do porn  himself you know  anyway  um  so yeah look that's that's the answer to  that question  um  and look i think it's a topic for  another video and i think i have talked  about it in a few different videos but  what does the word apology mean to you  i think if you haven't really examined  it it's very much a kind of  figment of the christian imagination i  think it's a kind of relic or a kind of  fossil  left over from christianity and when you  denude it of that christian  cultural context when you rend it away  from christianity  the meaning of the word apology and what  what it means to you personally and  pragmatically and in your relationship  with your own father your own family  your own work colleagues like what does  an apology really mean  uh i think that's something important  for each of us to challenge and examine  and come to our own conclusions  um i've already done that you know but  i've got to tell you something just even  living in a culture like thailand laos  cambodia  a lot of these concepts they don't mean  the same thing as there that they mean  to it like apology  even telling a lie and telling a truth  like  even though it may be subtle the fact  that those are non-christian cultures  it's very different you know what that  means  but the concept of an apology the  concept of making amends  you know  um  as an utterly non-christian person  myself that's something i've had to not  just philosophize about but it's  something i've had to think about and  apply you know in my in my own life  and so on you know  um  i would point this out too so this is a  little riddle within the english  language  suppose someone said to you after you've  been waiting for a long time  um  under whatever circumstances they asked  you to wait and then you had to wait for  an hour outside a changing room while  they were trying on clothes and then  they came out and thanked you and said  look i really want to thank you  you've been incredibly patient  if you said back to them  i haven't been patient  i was only pretending  someone who pretends to be patient is  patient  you can't be inwardly impatient and  outwardly patient right like the outward  reality of being patient is  what it is to be patient you know some  things are like this what if someone  asked you  when did you forgive your father like  when did you guys reconcile with but  they said when did you  when did you accept your father's  apology and when did you forgive him so  getting at this concept of a boy what if  you said back when you were asked this  question  i didn't forgive him  i just pretended to  i didn't accept his apology i just  pretended  in the same way there isn't actually a  distinction there because we're just  talking about something on that surface  level of  of behavior right we think of  forgiveness  as something profound we think of an  apology as something profound and it's  not  we think of patience as something  profound and it's not also that's also  very christian patience is itself  dripping with medieval christian you  know all the cultural assumptions left  over from the dark ages uh patience is a  virtue a very very christian thing  okay there are some more great questions  here but this will become a three-hour  podcast or something if i answer them  all  um  [Music]  yeah so look sir two of these questions  are related so so  charlie asks also quote if money was not  an object what would you be doing in  your life right now so i think i have  many videos talking about that and the  links have already sent you charlie  talks about that too you know  but look let's relate this to vegan  gains  so money is not an object for him what  the [ __ ] is he doing with his life i  wish i could do exactly the things i  talked about i wish i could fly to syria  i talked to melissa okay i'll give you a  couple examples right now one i wish i  could go to syria whatever five years  ago now or something when syria was  really popping sure i wish i could go to  some of these war zones i've said to  melissa very recently i wish i could go  to ukraine of course i do find the money  of course i would i would have gone to  ukraine the day it's before it started  i'm just saying honestly because i knew  it was coming if you were paying  attention to politics of course i wish i  could go to ukraine or right on the  ukrainian border so yeah probably i  could go at least to levi or something  you know uh you know whatever sure i  wish i could go to ukraine i wish i  could go to syria but there were places  that we should go within the united  states when the the riots started in um  uh i'm always gonna get the show  in minneapolis i always think minnesota  instead of minneapolis to just get them  confused because the words i i wanted to  go to  minneapolis when the george floyd riots  were happening i had no money  i still have no money you know and you  know i don't have a big enough audience  i couldn't turn to my audience and say  hey guys could you donate say two  thousand dollars so i can buy an  airplane ticket and go to the  minneapolis and stay in a hotel or  whatever you know i'm sorry i'm saying  two thousand dollars off the top of my  head i don't i don't know maybe one  thousand dollars would be enough for  that actually um but anyway no there are  there are things i really want to do  politically and there were events i've  wanted to attend that are normally in  um washington d.c  political events they might be in london  england or you know one of the other  political centers of the world but  washington dc most often but you know  sometimes in brussels in in one of the  political capitals of europe there are  trials going on at the hague in the  netherlands i'd love to attend and you  know in terms of languages  i can do politics in asia i absolutely  wish i could do those things and that's  sorry then implicit criteria there i'm  just talking about what i would do alone  if i could put together a show more like  the young turks sorry in one respect  with the interest meaning a circle of  people group working together there are  many many ways in which i do not want to  be like the young  horrible tv show but i'm just saying  like when that started what was it four  people working together maybe eight  people working together like if i had a  team  of seven other people working with me  and i had the money for that of course i  would love to to do that i've talked  about that for eight years or something  on youtube you know of course talent is  scarce money is scarce but sure there  are tons of really palpable examples of  what i would have done if i had the  money but including so i i don't know if  i mentioned this before i think i never  have but i knew one person who was in  minneapolis  and her apartment was close enough to  the riots she was just saying this to me  as text messages but she said she could  hear gunshots and she could see the  flames out of her window like kind of  just out at the edge of her window she  was close enough to the riots and she  was saying this to me as she was saying  she was packing up to get out of town i  forget she went to stay in some friends  apartment in another part of town or  some of that but she was she was there  and you know again that just  made me think you know oh wow could i  buy an airplane ticket could i go even  if again even if it's just to talk about  it on youtube with you guys you know of  course so if i had the money  again that's not that much money i mean  you can tell me how much that would have  cost any of these examples um  but look guys there are elections in  cambodia right now  now i wish i wish i could say there were  a lot of people who would make a more  meaningful youtube video about the  politics of cambodia i don't believe it  i really wish i could be there  covering and talking about the politics  of cambodia absolutely now guys today i  can speak this much cambodian oh my god  so cambodian is a really hard language  it's much easier for me to speak lotion  than but much easier for me to speak  chinese too but sure i wish i could be  covering cambodia i wish i could be  covering myanmar there are a lot of  things i'd love to do if i had more  money and guys sorry the other thing  that we we don't even mention here is  what difference could more money make in  terms of my situation with my daughter  and my  endlessly ongoing divorce or my my first  wife my honest answer to that is not  much i don't really think it could make  that much of a difference but sure be  nice to think if i had more money that  somehow  um circumstances could get better for me  i'm just being real with you at this  point i've learned a lot about how the  french legal system works  probably it's just hopeless you know  there's some problems or even if you  spend a million dollars on them it's not  going to get any better uh the lawyer i  have right now i think is really good  actually my lawyer in france  um but she's honest with me  and  i'm but yeah sure that's another  question is to what extent could my  daughter be a part of my life and my  daughter could be here with me on  youtube at this point why not you know  sure so yeah now look guys sorry i just  wasn't repeating myself but charlie  i wanted to publish several books and  money has been a huge problem and it  relates to my daughter it relates to  vegan activist revised changing world  i wanted to illustrate and publish  children's story books  and i can't do that because one i don't  have the money to i don't have other  people that work with me who are  talented so sure i'm sorry but i already  talked about that earlier in the video  so i won't talk about it further but  there were publishing projects there are  conference projects i talked as melissa  i would talk with melissa about this  just a couple days ago i would host  like scholarly conferences i can't say  academic conferences i would invite  other people to write papers about  politics including vegan politics and  meet and have conferences and then  publish the collected papers  on amazon you know as books and come  here on youtube and present the edited  footage of what we said and what we  debated at these conferences would love  to do that  but  one money is scarce two talent is scarce  you know and for years back when i had a  little bit of money in the bank you know  i proposed that i proposed paying for it  completely out of my pocket but you know  yeah sure so one category is things i  would do totally alone and other  categories things i would do working  with other people sure what can i tell  you man i have all kinds of  uh frustrated ambitions and  part of the philosophy i'm setting out  in my current books  both future of an illusion and no more  manifesto two different books pardon me  no no more manifesto is plural you know  is how you can live your life how you  can be a distant intellectual pursue  uh political change in the absence of of  all those things  so yeah shout out to generation xgamer  we've uh we've kept him up past his  bedtime  you can watch the rest of the video uh  tomorrow when it's uh when it's a better  time and your time zone okay great  camera's going to focus here all right  guys i'm gonna try to wrap this up um  reading the uh oh  [Music]  so we have a comment from the audience  that this person has literally seen all  of the porn that ever existed  and has exhaustive knowledge of every  porn star  well were you winding up to telling us  your evaluation of vegan gains and his  performance and so on or no i mean i  just seems like it's setting something  up  let's see that seems like that comment  was leading somewhere but  all right great um  [Music]  all right so one more question here that  i'm going to return wolfpack asks about  advice on learning languages so i have a  whole separate youtube video about that  sorry i hold separate youtube  channel about that which you may not  know  so my name is eisel mazzard i have a  channel called eyes on mozart it's it's  not popular  but you know i recommend you watch those  videos  and you know um  [Music]  i'm i i'm very careful about giving  advice to strangers i would never  casually say to a stranger that they  should learn chinese or learn lotion or  learn javanese or or learn korea or  ojibwe i am very very careful in giving  that kind of advice for people but  people i know or people where i talk to  them  sorry actually i just i just made a post  on my blog about that too so this is  someone who'd written me several times  was asking for advice on becoming a  scholar of buddhism  and um learning a specific language  or  a number of languages in relation to  that so you might want to check out both  those links one of those like youtube  channel my response to that person where  i said to him look probably you should  not be studying these languages but yeah  it's um  when you think about what decisions  people make that are really going to  change  every day  of every week of every year for the rest  of their lives  learning a language changes you learning  a language changes who you are it  changes the whole rest of your life even  if you  quote up forget it you know  oh all right so i'm going to continue  with this this is the final email in the  sequence because vegan gains does not  reply again  richard  okay so we'll make a video proceeding  with your statement that one you  currently do not own real firearms  because the police do not allow you to  under the terms of your probation two  correct me if i'm wrong but you have  lied and continue to lie in claiming  that you do not own any real weapons  you claim that all of your weapons are  fake and toys because the knives  assault batons swords etc  are indeed real weapons these were shown  on camera right the word weapon is not  the same as the word gun sorry and it's  the concept of a real gun as opposed to  a bb gun  probably not worth debating okay point  three  you still want to own guns in the future  comma as soon as you were allowed to do  so legally  is this correct  do you want to clarify what your  position on firearms or firearms  ownership is  new paragraph  do you believe  that someone who has hallucinations  of the kind you describe yourself  including auditory hallucinations  hearing voices that are not there  having paranoid and aggressive reactions  to strangers with the specific delusion  that these people are trying to kill you  when they just say hello to you or when  they just shake hands with you etc  do you think that sort of person  should be allowed to own use and carry  firearms  if i describe that person to you as  someone other than yourself  would you agree with the statement quote  the government is justified in doubting  their responsibility to safely use  firearms  do you think that the military would be  willing to recruit or employ someone  with this list of symptoms  and to trust them to use guns  responsibly in a high pressure situation  would you not agree that someone who had  your checklist of symptoms might be  disqualified from owning or carrying  firearms in at least some democratic  countries  richard  when people write into me saying  quote he should be on psychiatric  medication close quote i write back  saying  no he should just take a vow that he's  not going to do any of these things  again  close quote  you say that you're a changed man  what you're showing me is that you  haven't changed  you presented yourself as a victim of  censorship  you then become a hypocrite the moment  it suits you quote you're putting me and  my wife in danger close quote  as if this were any more true of you  than for example a bodybuilder claiming  that his life is in danger if his  apartment is searched for illegal drugs  because you have accused him of using  illegal drugs on your youtube channel  richard you have just been morally  grandstanding about the right of free  speech critique and satire and then the  moment it's convenient for you you do  everything in your power to oppress  someone else while continuing to play  the victim card  you know that i could make a telephone  call to the toronto police today with no  difficulty  and simply express my concerns about you  and that would more likely entail  problems for you and your parole officer  i didn't do that  i engaged in exactly the kind of  rational philosophical discussion about  ethics on youtube  that you claim to support and defend  but not when it questions your own most  sacred value  namely  wasting time  playing  video games  newspapers make criminal allegations all  the time  it is part of journalism  if a newspaper says the alleged bank  robber that's an allegation  it is reporting an allegation the  etymology of the two words is clear in  canada telling the truth is always a  defense against defamation  i have been telling the truth  you have completely failed to provide  even one example of me lying  or making a criminal allegation against  you however yes for example you have  openly talked about using illegal drugs  for example hallucinogenic mushrooms on  your own youtube channel  so if i report that you've used illegal  drugs then i am making a criminal  allegation in the same sense that a  newspaper is in reporting the facts  that doesn't mean  i'm doing anything wrong  talking about criminal allegations is  one of the most important parts of  protected freedom of speech  there are legal consequences for making  reckless and irresponsible criminal  allegations but that's not what i've  done in my videos  you are the one who has made  irresponsible criminal allegations  accusing gerain writer of rape for  example  although this is certainly not the only  example  and you have been callous and cruel  towards others when doing so  richard  you've been a complete hypocrite here  you've become everything you always said  you despised  you are one playing the victim  and two at the same time you're really  engaging in bullying and harassment  yourself  claiming quote i'll shut down your  channel and quote i'll sue you  in response to legitimate criticism and  satire  really think with some detachment and  objectivity about the contrast between  the criticism criticism and satire of  directed towards you  and the criticism and satire you have  directed at so many other people  even think about the difference between  the criticism of directed you and your  replies to me  just insulting me basically  for example saying things about the size  of my penis  the golden rule would be pretty easy for  you for you to apply here richard  why can't you act toward me in the way  you'd want others  to act toward  you